{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff31507\deff0\stshfdbch31505\stshfloch31506\stshfhich31506\stshfbi31507\deflang4105\deflangfe4105\themelang4105\themelangfe0\themelangcs0{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f34\fbidi \froman\fcharset1\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria Math;}
{\f37\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria;}
{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}
{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f39\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f40\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f42\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f43\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f44\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f45\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f46\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f47\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f409\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\f410\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}
{\f412\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\f413\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}{\f416\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}{\f417\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}
{\flomajor\f31508\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\flomajor\f31509\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flomajor\f31511\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\flomajor\f31512\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\flomajor\f31513\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flomajor\f31514\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\flomajor\f31515\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\flomajor\f31516\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbmajor\f31518\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\fdbmajor\f31519\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fdbmajor\f31521\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbmajor\f31522\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\fdbmajor\f31523\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fdbmajor\f31524\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbmajor\f31525\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\fdbmajor\f31526\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fhimajor\f31528\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Cambria CE;}{\fhimajor\f31529\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Cambria Cyr;}
{\fhimajor\f31531\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Cambria Greek;}{\fhimajor\f31532\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Cambria Tur;}{\fhimajor\f31535\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Cambria Baltic;}
{\fhimajor\f31536\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Cambria (Vietnamese);}{\fbimajor\f31538\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbimajor\f31539\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fbimajor\f31541\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fbimajor\f31542\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbimajor\f31543\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fbimajor\f31544\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fbimajor\f31545\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbimajor\f31546\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\flominor\f31548\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\flominor\f31549\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flominor\f31551\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\flominor\f31552\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\flominor\f31553\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flominor\f31554\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\flominor\f31555\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\flominor\f31556\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbminor\f31558\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\fdbminor\f31559\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fdbminor\f31561\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbminor\f31562\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\fdbminor\f31563\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fdbminor\f31564\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbminor\f31565\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\fdbminor\f31566\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fhiminor\f31568\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\fhiminor\f31569\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}
{\fhiminor\f31571\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\fhiminor\f31572\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}{\fhiminor\f31575\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}
{\fhiminor\f31576\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}{\fbiminor\f31578\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbiminor\f31579\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fbiminor\f31581\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fbiminor\f31582\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbiminor\f31583\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fbiminor\f31584\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fbiminor\f31585\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbiminor\f31586\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\*\defchp \fs22\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505 }{\*\defpap \ql \li0\ri0\sa200\sl276\slmult1
\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 }\noqfpromote {\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\sa200\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs22\alang1025 
\ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\lang4105\langfe4105\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp4105\langfenp4105 \snext0 \sqformat \spriority0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden \sunhideused \spriority1 Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\sa200\sl276\slmult1
\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\lang4105\langfe4105\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp4105\langfenp4105 
\snext11 \ssemihidden \sunhideused \sqformat Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid4267000}{\mmathPr\mmathFont34\mbrkBin0\mbrkBinSub0\msmallFrac0\mdispDef1\mlMargin0\mrMargin0\mdefJc1\mwrapIndent1440\mintLim0\mnaryLim1}{\info{\operator thenotion}
{\creatim\yr2014\mo3\dy14\hr10\min49}{\revtim\yr2014\mo3\dy14\hr10\min54}{\version2}{\edmins5}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords3046}{\nofchars14005}{\nofcharsws17017}{\vern32859}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\trackmoves1\trackformatting1\donotembedsysfont0\relyonvml0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\rsidroot4267000 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 2450}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sa200\sl276\slmult1\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\fs22\lang4105\langfe4105\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp4105\langfenp4105 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang9\langfe4105\langnp9\insrsid4267000 
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37    SCANT MINUTES before the HMS Serpentine left port a woman brought a girl up the gangplank with a heavy case, left her in the care of a Spanish nun, and promptly left.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37       "A donde vaya usted nina?" asked the nun.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37       "Al Lisboa senora."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37       The nun summoned the bosun's mate, who brought her before the captain, who dropped the gangplank for a wildly gesturing couple who appeared suddenly on the dock.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "I'm English," said the man when he arrived breathless and little disheveled. "Do I \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 have the honour of addressing the captain?"
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "You do."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "Then pray tell us what ship this is and where it's bound."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "His Majesty's Royal Merchant ship Serpentine, bound for London with a sugar cargo ... and a little girl too I believe." The capta\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 in winked at Julia and she smiled a timid smile.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "She must come with us."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "I don't understand."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "Nor do we....that is my wife and I ... well there's been a misunderstanding y'see."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37      The captain pondered this...
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "Bosun, am I to understan\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 d the girl is not a legitimate passenger?"
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "Not on the ship's list sir. We just have the Spanish lady as far as the Azores."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "I see. Well carry on then." And the man went down the gangplank with Julia and her trunk.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "Damned Spanish idiots," sai\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 d the captain.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "Portuguese,sir." corrected the bosun. "Though the one who brought her onboard looked a bit of a darkie. Damn fetching if you ask me, those shimmies. Ever had one, sir?"
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "Shut up bosun," said the captain.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     "Yes sir," said the bosu\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 n.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     It was Maria the maid who roused the family's English neighbours after Mario left with Julia's mother and her case, and they flew as fast as hooves would carry them to the dock.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37    "Damned lucky thing there was only one ship there today," said Jona\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 than when they had Julia safely in the coach, and his wife agreed.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37       "Extraordinary thing to do. Never heard of such a thing in all my days. You must come and stay with us you poor child. Oh dear, she doesn't understand me. Speak to her Jonathan."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37   "Voc\'ea\loch\f37 \hich\f37  fala ingl\'ea\loch\f37 s?" he asked
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37       "N\'e3\loch\f37 o falo," said Julia.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37      "Julia must come to our house as often as possible," pronounced Jonathan's wife, and he nodded reluctantly. Julia was unaccustomed to the creamy charm of the English, and too young to unders
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 tand that it was entirely conditional.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37    "At least she has a roo}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang9\langfe4105\langnp9\insrsid4267000 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 f over her head," said Jonathan.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f37\lang9\langfe4105\langnp9\insrsid4267000 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  "\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  Anyways t\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 hat maid has a head on her shoulders, and the old lady is always there...."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37       "Oof! I cannot abide that woman. Perhaps the priest...
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37       "Good lord no. He'll just send her to a convent. It's where the Portuguese put the famil}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang9\langfe4105\langnp9\insrsid4267000 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 i}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af37 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\lang9\langfe4105\langnp9\insrsid4267000 \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 es of their enemies after\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
 they give them the chop. Horrible. Anyway I can't tell those damned Jesuits from the heathen. You saw them on the roads the other day, walking with them, even speaking their lingo." Jonathan spoke Portuguese perfectly although the local dialect baffled h
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 i\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 m.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37       `Well then tell her we'll come and visit more often, just to see how she's getting on," and he did.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37       "Que me quieria quedar en el cruzero," replied Julia.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37       "Ha. She says she wants to stay on the ship."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37       "I can't say as I blame her."
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
      Their coach passed the port building and the pier where boats ferried people to the islands in the Bahia Todos os Santos, and the seabreeze that fanned them smelled of clove and the charcoal fires from the tiny bairros of the lower town. A kind of 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
pagan melee always erupted here before Semana Santa, the holiest week in the Christian calendar, which coincided with the celebration of the harvest. The festivities became more widespread and intense as the Jesuits lost control of their converts. Bands o
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 f\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 
 revelers roamed the streets wearing animal skins and huge paper-mache heads representing the full panoply of African and Tupi gods. They gathered on corners with the vendors and drummers, or by small cooking fires where the mai de santos of the Candombl
\'e9\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
houses dispensed banana leaves with cooked yams and goat. The sound of the samba and drumming came from every house and street corner, and from the alleys and rooftops too. Dancers in strips of cloth and leather moved seductively to the samba de roda, or 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 l\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 ay on the ground overcome by exhaustion and intoxication, or merely swayed and stared fixedly into the distance.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37    Julia recognized many of the faces and body types who filled the narrow street below the ornate  balconies of the houses - the undulating B\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
antus, and the lighter skinned Cafuza, and the short tribespeople in countless shades of black and tan and cinnamon. Their hair was braided with sticks and cowry shells, and charms hung from their belts and bracelets to ward off smallpox, or cholera, or a
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 n\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 y of a host of ailments that afflicted the people of the new world.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37     Progress became difficult and then impossible as the small black coach stopped for a procession led by a woman holding an icon of the Virgin Mary. The acolytes who followed were in lo\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
\hich\f37 ng white robes and skull caps. Julia knew she was the mother of a Candombl\'e9\loch\f37 
 family on their way to a feast or an initiation, but she could not identify one of their party, a masked man who careened through the crowd in an erratic manner suggesting he was \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 u\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
nder the influence of one of the herbs the Yoruba took during festivals. She had never seen this kind of public ritual before. Perhaps it was Macumba or Vocu, or a hydrid of some kind.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37    He caught Julia's eye and darted towards the coach, thrusting his h\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
ead through the tiny guillotine window. The mask fell off and revealed eyes which were wild and bulging, and the whites of them stood out against the blue black face. He smelled of sweat and charcoal, and stared at Julia speechless but with growing recogn
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 i\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 
tion, and she too glimpsed something familiar as she looked into the black eyes, only she couldn't say what it was. Then he smiled, and his eyes rolled back in his head which shook vigorously, and he said something to her in Nag\'f4.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37    "Good lord."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37    Jonat\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 han's wife rapped him on the forehead with her fan and he faded back into the street.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37    "I think he just wanted a few coins my dear," Jonathan said. \'ac
\par 
\par .
\par .
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 JULIA FELT SAFE at the river and went often, for the mission was close, and the town was far enough\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
 from Bahia to escape the danger of the roads. At the bend it widened into a jade pool under a canopy of Reina del Noche, and she liked to paddle her feet there.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Where are your shoes?" asked Lygia.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "I don't know. Somewhere there." A breeze lifted the bran\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 ches of the Pichote trees and brought the scent of the Reina to her.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "You're always losing them. Why don't you lose that old calico dress instead...?"
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "I like it," she said in Tupi.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Don't speak that, you know it's forbidden." But Lygia too spoke the pidgi\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 n tongue of the Jesuits. "Say you love me you crazy girl, in Portuguese."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 "Eu te amo. Voc\'ea\loch\f37  fala Francais?"
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 "N\'e3\loch\f37 \hich\f37 o falo n\'e3\loch\f37 o."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 " ...listen!"
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 The sound of voices, barely audible, began to rise over the shrill drone of the cicadas, and then t\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 he wheezing of oxen and creaking of wagons.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Oh, it's the peregrinos. Come!"
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 In the days before Semana Santa the pilgrims walked from their homes to S\'e3\loch\f37 o Franscisco in Salvadore de Bahia, for that was the tradition, and the greater the distance the more dev
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 out the pilgrim was for having made the journey.
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Julia and Lygia dawdled behind the slow oxen and the swinging wooden carts of the boyeros, taking whatever shade they could find from the bamboo that grew over the road.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 "... and that boy you like - J\'e2\loch\f37 nio \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 - what of him?" said Julia.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "What? I don't like any boy.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "I saw him yesterday, the thief."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "He's not!"
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 ..."He's stolen your heart."
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 When they passed the mission Julia looked for Father Quadra on the steps and by the baroque fountain with the pale blue azu\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 elas depicting the saints but she did not see him.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Your priest isn't there, loca. He's gone to Rome," whispered Lygia.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "He hasn't."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Come."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 She dragged Julia over to the drummers and the children who had been taught by the priests to sing the psalms in Tu\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
pi, and they passed the rest of the afternoon in this way, walking among the pilgrims bound for the Terreira de Jesus in old Bahia, until the big iron gate of her house appeared in the distance and grew larger with each step.
\par 
\par .
\par .
\par .
\par .
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Where are your shoes\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 ?"
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "At the river."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 "Aii, essas menina, eu n\'e3\loch\f37 
o sei o que fazer com ela," said abuela to Maria, and sent her to the river to fetch them, and the maid went into the courtyard to dispatch Mario by horseback. Shoes and dresses were in short supply but the house\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
hold still managed with the few loyal Creoles who had came from Martinique with Julia's father. The rest had made other arrangements in the town or in Bahia, or merely gone back to the hills where they'd come from. Many did in the early days of liberty, a
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 n\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
d returned again, but in the interval the plantations languished. The ships lay idle in the Bahia Todos os Santos for many weeks because the sugar harvests were poor, and some even left half empty. Julia saw them from the convent at Terreira de Jesus wher
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 e\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  she visited the nuns with Father Quadra. Their gunnels rode high above the opaque waters of the bay.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
The saints did not speak to Julia in the church of the Jesuit, though they sometimes appeared to her outside of them. Once Julia had gone with her family by ship to a tear shaped island off the wild southern coast, where the red and green papagayos swoope
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 d\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
 out of the primeval forest against the chatter of a thousand white faced monkeys, and she had seen the face of the Virgin Mary in the emerald waves that folded over the vanishing tip of the land, and the Virgin spoke to her, as she did sometimes when Jul
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 i\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 a visited wild places. Julia wished to return someday but it was impossible without a ship and an escort because of the savages.
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Julia's mother returned at last from her garden.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Father Quadra is here," she said, without further explanation.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Aiiiii ... \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 that priest," exclaimed abuela. "Leave him there, don't invite him in."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Come then," said her mother, and they went into the courtyard where Father Quadra greeted them warmly. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Tu foi na prefeitura?", asked abjuela.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Sim. Fui." 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 They talked, as as they di\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 
d their tones fell, hushed. Yes, he had gone yesterday to the magistrate. It was true there had been an unfortunate scandal in Lisbon and the father confessor of the powerful House of T\'e1\loch\f37 
vora, a Jesuit, had been imprisoned. They talked at length, there in \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 t\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
he courtyard where the night blooming hibiscus grew under Julia's bedroom window, and Father Quadra kept repeating, 'there is the question of the title, the lands are within the reduccion granted by the Spanish Crown'. Soon others arrived through the wrou
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 g\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
ht iron gate or from other parts of the house but kept their distance from the priest and abuela too, whom even the Portuguese merchants in the town called grandmother, for they were a little afraid of her, and they listened, and finally her abuela said, 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 'these subjects, I do not know them well."
\par 
\par 
\par .
\par .
\par .
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Then one night after the neighbours had gone home, and abuela sat under the Pichote tree in the courtyard singing softly to herself and drinking cognac, Julia heard the even tenor of Father Quadra's voice ...
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 
He was trying to persuade abuela of something, until she said, with a degree of finality, "No no I don't mix with those foreigners. They all come here wanting something. You black dresses want souls, the Portuguese jacar\'e9\loch\f37  want the cacao."

\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Yes, everybo\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 dy wants something," said Father Quadra.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Well what about you god man, what you want?" she asked. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 But the priest did not answer...
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 If God wills it ..."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "Ha. You priests think everything God's will. You think God change these slaves and these Tupi into me\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 
rchants? You think God educate them, teach them manners and clocks? You make me laugh. God want them the way they are and so do the Jesuits and the Africans in the candombl\'e9\loch\f37 
 houses, them who are like......... children playing with potions and dolls. The j\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 a\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 car\'e9\loch\f37 
 will take everything in Bahia, and them and you too but not this. I bring that Jew man here and the cacao and it grow for me. They leave this alone. You watch. You see."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "...and your family? What of them?" he continued. "Julia's education, her mother,\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
 who will provide for them?" Abuela thought for a long time about this. "You talk a lot about my family, father. Now let me ask you, what it is you want. Everybody want something, like you say, well what about you, God man?"
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Father Quadra smiled. "You're a\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 n interesting woman, abuela," he said at last. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "You a damn strange priest," she replied.
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 Father Quadra excused himself and found his way under the moonlight to the gate, and she heard abuela whisper, as though from a long way away, "I don't need to make y\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 
ou go, God man. Those jacar\'e9\loch\f37 
 take you in a big ship. You be in a dark place for a long, long time. You going to wish they burned you like that old fool in Lisbon..." Then she hummed and sang softly and broke into phrases Julia didn't know but guessed were
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 Nag\'f4\loch\f37 , the language of the Yoruba, and she remained like that either semi intoxicated or in a trance for the whole of the time it took her to fall asleep.
\par 
\par .
\par .
\par .
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
But the estate of Julia's father was still very far away from these events. No matter how many Portuguese soldiers came to Bahia, or how many Jesuits they took away, the sea breeze still blew through the latticed window on the garden and filled her bedroo
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 m\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
 with the moon and the stars and the perfume of the hibiscus, and the Reina del Noche which was said to drive men mad, or madmen sane, if they drank a tea made from its petals. Her mother still brooded in the garden and her abuela still sang the songs of 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 a\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
nother country in the kitchen, and at night in the street in front of the iron gate where she held court with her Cafuza friends, the servants of neighbouring houses and plantations, she would talk about the foreigners: The Portuguese, the French, the Dut
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 c\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
h, the English - any and all who had come to Bahia to conquer or trade or bring industry or slaves for the plantations. Then a hush would fall as the hour grew late and they moved into the courtyard to mutter in a tongue Julia didn't know, in tones too lo
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 w\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  to hear from the street, although she heard them from her window because she listened. Julia had a talent for languages. Father Quadra said so.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 The cacao that came from Martinique had been of little interest to the Jesuits, less so because it was cultiva\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
ted by Dutch Jews who were fleeing the Inquisition. As the taste for chocolate spread throughout London and Paris, however, the Portuguese began to take note of the fledgling plantations at Bahia. The Jesuits too became a subject of considerable interest 
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 a\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
s the winds of liberty began to blow through the palaces of Europe. Liberty had its price, and the kings in Europe and their confessors in Rome and their converts in the colonies of the new world would have to pay it. The rich Jesuit lands became chattels
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
for Madrid and Lisbon to barter with, pawns in an elaborate chess game that even Father Quadra would never understand, although he knew one thing very well: The garden of eden they had laboured for two hundred years to build was being lost forever.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 What's\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
 wrong child," repeated the Jesuit. "What do you have in your hand?" She did not reply but only opened her fingers and released a fly into the perfumed air of the night. Father Quadra smiled: 'Only a fly', he said. To Julia it had seemed a thing of infini
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 t\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 e grace.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
The rest followed with stones they picked up by the portico that lay half finished at the iron gate and one found its mark as the family scurried into the coach. Then abuela loomed before them, and they fell back murmuring among themselves, and s
\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 he said, "n\'e3\loch\f37 o tem dinheiro."
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "A poor jew, I never heard of that," said one of the men and ...they laughed, chanting, "poor jew, poor jew...".
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 The rest followed with stones they picked up by the portico that lay half finished at the iron gate and one found\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 
 its mark as the family scurried into the coach. Then abuela loomed before them, and they fell back murmuring among themselves, and she said, "n\'e3\loch\f37 o tem dinheiro." 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "A poor jew, I never heard of that," said one of the men and they laughed, chanting, "poor je\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 w, poor jew...". 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 "But they drink cognac, I sold it to them," said the merchant Sim, and the crowd rallied at this. 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 \hich\f37 "I drink cognac because it is liquid," shouted abjuela, " - se fosse s\'f3\loch\f37 \hich\f37 lido com\'ea\loch\f37  lo ia - if it were solid I would eat it!" Then the men lau\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 
ghed again, and parted as Mario started the coach and it clattered over the cobbles to arrive too late at the Infirmary in Bahia.
\par 
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 On that night too the courtyard had been full of men, and the air heavy with the heat and exotic scents and one said greedy j\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 ew and threw a stone at the door.
\par .
\par .
\par .
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  ... and hand in hand on the edge of the sand, they danced by the light of the moon, the moon, the moon, they danced by the light of the moon ...
\par \hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37 ... Julia's abuela was Cafuzo, the part of her that still punted along\hich\af37\dbch\af31505\loch\f37  silent rivers in dugouts and worshipped household gods....
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\*\themedata 504b030414000600080000002100828abc13fa0000001c020000130000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6cac91cb6ac3301045f785fe83d0b6d8
72ba28a5d8cea249777d2cd20f18e4b12d6a8f843409c9df77ecb850ba082d74231062ce997b55ae8fe3a00e1893f354e9555e6885647de3a8abf4fbee29bbd7
2a3150038327acf409935ed7d757e5ee14302999a654e99e393c18936c8f23a4dc072479697d1c81e51a3b13c07e4087e6b628ee8cf5c4489cf1c4d075f92a0b
44d7a07a83c82f308ac7b0a0f0fbf90c2480980b58abc733615aa2d210c2e02cb04430076a7ee833dfb6ce62e3ed7e14693e8317d8cd0433bf5c60f53fea2fe7
065bd80facb647e9e25c7fc421fd2ddb526b2e9373fed4bb902e182e97b7b461e6bfad3f010000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c00000
00360100000b0000005f72656c732f2e72656c73848fcf6ac3300c87ef85bd83d17d51d2c31825762fa590432fa37d00e1287f68221bdb1bebdb4fc7060abb08
84a4eff7a93dfeae8bf9e194e720169aaa06c3e2433fcb68e1763dbf7f82c985a4a725085b787086a37bdbb55fbc50d1a33ccd311ba548b63095120f88d94fbc
52ae4264d1c910d24a45db3462247fa791715fd71f989e19e0364cd3f51652d73760ae8fa8c9ffb3c330cc9e4fc17faf2ce545046e37944c69e462a1a82fe353
bd90a865aad41ed0b5b8f9d6fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000007468656d652f7468656d652f7468
656d654d616e616765722e786d6c0ccc4d0ac3201040e17da17790d93763bb284562b2cbaebbf600439c1a41c7a0d29fdbd7e5e38337cedf14d59b4b0d592c9c
070d8a65cd2e88b7f07c2ca71ba8da481cc52c6ce1c715e6e97818c9b48d13df49c873517d23d59085adb5dd20d6b52bd521ef2cdd5eb9246a3d8b4757e8d3f7
29e245eb2b260a0238fd010000ffff0300504b03041400060008000000210096b5ade296060000501b0000160000007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65
312e786d6cec594f6fdb3614bf0fd87720746f6327761a07758ad8b19b2d4d1bc46e871e698996d850a240d2497d1bdae38001c3ba618715d86d87615b8116d8
a5fb34d93a6c1dd0afb0475292c5585e9236d88aad3e2412f9e3fbff1e1fa9abd7eec70c1d1221294fda5efd72cd4324f1794093b0eddd1ef62fad79482a9c04
98f184b4bd2991deb58df7dfbb8ad755446282607d22d771db8b944ad79796a40fc3585ee62949606ecc458c15bc8a702910f808e8c66c69b9565b5d8a314d3c
94e018c8de1a8fa94fd05093f43672e23d06af89927ac06762a049136785c10607758d9053d965021d62d6f6804fc08f86e4bef210c352c144dbab999fb7b471
7509af678b985ab0b6b4ae6f7ed9ba6c4170b06c788a705430adf71bad2b5b057d03606a1ed7ebf5babd7a41cf00b0ef83a6569632cd467faddec9699640f671
9e76b7d6ac355c7c89feca9cccad4ea7d36c65b258a206641f1b73f8b5da6a6373d9c11b90c537e7f08dce66b7bbeae00dc8e257e7f0fd2badd5868b37a088d1
e4600ead1ddaef67d40bc898b3ed4af81ac0d76a197c86826828a24bb318f3442d8ab518dfe3a20f000d6458d104a9694ac6d88728eee2782428d60cf03ac1a5
193be4cbb921cd0b495fd054b5bd0f530c1931a3f7eaf9f7af9e3f45c70f9e1d3ff8e9f8e1c3e3073f5a42ceaa6d9c84e5552fbffdeccfc71fa33f9e7ef3f2d1
17d57859c6fffac327bffcfc793510d26726ce8b2f9ffcf6ecc98baf3efdfdbb4715f04d814765f890c644a29be408edf3181433567125272371be15c308d3f2
8acd249438c19a4b05fd9e8a1cf4cd296699771c393ac4b5e01d01e5a30a787d72cf1178108989a2159c77a2d801ee72ce3a5c545a6147f32a99793849c26ae6
6252c6ed637c58c5bb8b13c7bfbd490a75330f4b47f16e441c31f7184e140e494214d273fc80900aedee52ead87597fa824b3e56e82e451d4c2b4d32a423279a
668bb6690c7e9956e90cfe766cb37b077538abd27a8b1cba48c80acc2a841f12e698f13a9e281c57911ce298950d7e03aba84ac8c154f8655c4f2af074481847
bd804859b5e696007d4b4edfc150b12addbecba6b18b148a1e54d1bc81392f23b7f84137c2715a851dd0242a633f900710a218ed715505dfe56e86e877f0034e
16bafb0e258ebb4faf06b769e888340b103d3311da9750aa9d0a1cd3e4efca31a3508f6d0c5c5c398602f8e2ebc71591f5b616e24dd893aa3261fb44f95d843b
5974bb5c04f4edafb95b7892ec1108f3f98de75dc97d5772bdff7cc95d94cf672db4b3da0a6557f70db629362d72bcb0431e53c6066acac80d699a6409fb44d0
8741bdce9c0e4971624a2378cceaba830b05366b90e0ea23aaa241845368b0eb9e2612ca8c742851ca251ceccc70256d8d87265dd96361531f186c3d9058edf2
c00eafe8e1fc5c509031bb4d680e9f39a3154de0accc56ae644441edd76156d7429d995bdd88664a9dc3ad50197c38af1a0c16d684060441db02565e85f3b966
0d0713cc48a0ed6ef7dedc2dc60b17e92219e180643ed27acffba86e9c94c78ab90980d8a9f0913ee49d62b512b79626fb06dccee2a432bbc60276b9f7dec44b
7904cfbca4f3f6443ab2a49c9c2c41476dafd55c6e7ac8c769db1bc399161ee314bc2e75cf8759081743be1236ec4f4d6693e5336fb672c5dc24a8c33585b5fb
9cc24e1d4885545b58463634cc5416022cd19cacfccb4d30eb45296023fd35a458598360f8d7a4003bbaae25e331f155d9d9a5116d3bfb9a95523e51440ca2e0
088dd844ec6370bf0e55d027a012ae264c45d02f708fa6ad6da6dce29c255df9f6cae0ec38666984b372ab5334cf640b37795cc860de4ae2816e95b21be5ceaf
8a49f90b52a51cc6ff3355f47e0237052b81f6800fd7b802239daf6d8f0b1571a8426944fdbe80c6c1d40e8816b88b8569082ab84c36ff0539d4ff6dce591a26
ade1c0a7f669880485fd484582903d284b26fa4e2156cff62e4b9265844c4495c495a9157b440e091bea1ab8aaf7760f4510eaa69a6465c0e04ec69ffb9e65d0
28d44d4e39df9c1a52ecbd3607fee9cec7263328e5d661d3d0e4f62f44acd855ed7ab33cdf7bcb8ae889599bd5c8b3029895b6825696f6af29c239b75a5bb1e6
345e6ee6c28117e73586c1a2214ae1be07e93fb0ff51e133fb65426fa843be0fb515c187064d0cc206a2fa926d3c902e907670048d931db4c1a44959d366ad93
b65abe595f70a75bf03d616c2dd959fc7d4e6317cd99cbcec9c58b34766661c7d6766ca1a9c1b327531486c6f941c638c67cd22a7f75e2a37be0e82db8df9f30
254d30c1372581a1f51c983c80e4b71ccdd28dbf000000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b010000270000007468656d652f74
68656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73848f4d0ac2301484f78277086f6fd3ba109126dd88d0add40384e4350d363f24
51eced0dae2c082e8761be9969bb979dc9136332de3168aa1a083ae995719ac16db8ec8e4052164e89d93b64b060828e6f37ed1567914b284d262452282e3198
720e274a939cd08a54f980ae38a38f56e422a3a641c8bbd048f7757da0f19b017cc524bd62107bd5001996509affb3fd381a89672f1f165dfe514173d9850528
a2c6cce0239baa4c04ca5bbabac4df000000ffff0300504b01022d0014000600080000002100828abc13fa0000001c0200001300000000000000000000000000
000000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b000000000000000000000000
002b0100005f72656c732f2e72656c73504b01022d00140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c00000000000000000000000000140200007468
656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c504b01022d001400060008000000210096b5ade296060000501b000016000000000000000000
00000000d10200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b010000270000000000
00000000000000009b0900007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73504b050600000000050005005d010000960a00000000}
{\*\colorschememapping 3c3f786d6c2076657273696f6e3d22312e302220656e636f64696e673d225554462d3822207374616e64616c6f6e653d22796573223f3e0d0a3c613a636c724d
617020786d6c6e733a613d22687474703a2f2f736368656d61732e6f70656e786d6c666f726d6174732e6f72672f64726177696e676d6c2f323030362f6d6169
6e22206267313d226c743122207478313d22646b3122206267323d226c743222207478323d22646b322220616363656e74313d22616363656e74312220616363
656e74323d22616363656e74322220616363656e74333d22616363656e74332220616363656e74343d22616363656e74342220616363656e74353d22616363656e74352220616363656e74363d22616363656e74362220686c696e6b3d22686c696e6b2220666f6c486c696e6b3d22666f6c486c696e6b222f3e}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax267\lsdlockeddef0\lsdsemihiddendef1\lsdunhideuseddef1\lsdqformatdef0\lsdprioritydef99{\lsdlockedexcept \lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority0 \lsdlocked0 Normal;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 1;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 2;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 3;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 4;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 5;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 6;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 7;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 8;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 9;
\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 1;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 2;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 3;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 4;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 5;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 6;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 7;
\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 8;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 9;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority35 \lsdlocked0 caption;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority10 \lsdlocked0 Title;\lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 Default Paragraph Font;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority11 \lsdlocked0 Subtitle;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority22 \lsdlocked0 Strong;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority20 \lsdlocked0 Emphasis;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority59 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdlocked0 Placeholder Text;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 No Spacing;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 1;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 1;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 1;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdlocked0 Revision;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority34 \lsdlocked0 List Paragraph;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority29 \lsdlocked0 Quote;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority30 \lsdlocked0 Intense Quote;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 1;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 1;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 3;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 3;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 3;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 3;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 3;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 4;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 4;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 4;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 4;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 5;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 5;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 5;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 5;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 5;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 6;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 6;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 6;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 6;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 6;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority19 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority21 \lsdlocked0 Intense Emphasis;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority31 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Reference;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority32 \lsdlocked0 Intense Reference;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority33 \lsdlocked0 Book Title;\lsdpriority37 \lsdlocked0 Bibliography;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 TOC Heading;}}{\*\datastore 010500000200000018000000
4d73786d6c322e534158584d4c5265616465722e352e3000000000000000000000060000
d0cf11e0a1b11ae1000000000000000000000000000000003e000300feff090006000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000000100000feffffff00000000feffffff0000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffdfffffffeffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff52006f006f007400200045006e00740072007900000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000016000500ffffffffffffffffffffffffec69d9888b8b3d4c859eaf6cd158be0f000000000000000000000000504a
6181ae3fcf01feffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000105000000000000}}