{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang4105\deflangfe4105{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22 The Five Minute Police Officer\par
By Terry barker\par
Digital edition by Notion Publishing\par
Copyright \'a9 2014\par
\par
With the assistance of S/Sgt. Ed Hill and the members of the Gibsons, B.C. Detachment of the R.C.M.P. \par
Special Edition Copyright 1989, 1995, 2001, 2006, 2010 by Terry Barker.  All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the author. First Edition First printing September, 1989. Second Printing June, 1991. Second Edition January, 1995. Digital Edition October, 2001 Current Revised Edition January, 2010 \par
ISBN 0-9691508-5-7 \page Preface to the 1989 edition \par
\par
Much of good police work depends on patience, tolerance, and common sense. These are traits and characteristics that one learns in time \emdash  through experience, trial and error, and by observing others. There are few people \emdash  and even fewer books \emdash  that can teach these hard-to-define qualities. In police training as we know it there is no class or course entitled \ldblquote Common Sense\rdblquote . It's something all good policemen just \ldblquote have\rdblquote . Some are blessed with a greater measure of it than others, and thus may achieve and succeed quicker than their peers. \par
Many times our success can be measured best in terms of good luck rather than good management. When we handle a situation just right or defuse a volatile incident as if by magic, we can take credit for a job well done: but do we really know how we did it? \par
Terry Barker is a consultant, lecturer and teacher. He has worked closely with policemen for over fifteen years. He knows better than most about how policemen actually think and act. His subject is communications skills, and his method is parable.  That is, he tells stories. His students learn by relating to tales and scenarios. With Terry Barker as the story teller, learning becomes easy and entertaining. \par
In his book, The Five Minute Policeman, Terry has put common sense into a tangible form. He has made common sense something that can actually be grasped and identified. As the pages of this book turn, not only will you learn a new system, and see how and why it works, but also you'll be able to identify how and why some of your own methods have worked for you in the past. Instead of having a situation turn for the better next time by good luck, Terry will have given you \ldblquote The System\rdblquote  \emdash  the tools with which you can achieve the same results by design. The ability to deal with the public in all its forms, moods and temperament with a \ldblquote System\rdblquote  allows even experienced policemen to feel a new confidence; and we all know that confidence coupled with experience and ability means a polished and professional job. \par
Enjoy The Five Minute Policeman and give Terry's \ldblquote System\rdblquote  a try. It will prove to be one of your most valued tools. \par
Sgt. W. E. (Ed) Hill NCO i/c RCMP Detachment Gibsons Gibsons, B.C. December 12, 1988. \par
\par
Preface to the 1995 edition \par
Congratulations to Terry on his printing of the Second Edition of , though I must say it\rquote s no surprise to me. The more people who read Terry\rquote s book, the more demand the book creates. I was flattered to be asked to compose this extended preface, if only to say that his teachings have stood the test of time. A member transferred to Hope Detachment finds the book \page  \ldblquote required reading\rdblquote , in that to practice its teachings is to conduct the business of police work as we are expected to \emdash  as it should be done. I have seen \ldblquote The System\rdblquote  work time and again, and I have delighted as others watch and listen. A member talking on the phone to a particularly difficult individual tends to attract the attention of all around the office. For those who have read  it\rquote s of no great surprise to see The System kick in \emdash  and, most times, work. \par
The delight comes, however, in watching skeptics as they see and hear it working before their very eyes. That experience alone is usually enough to win over yet another convert. Over the past few years, since Terry\rquote s first printing in 1989, I have seen other professionals and business people recognize his teachings. Any business person whose job or daily routine deals with other people, can benefit from \ldblquote The System\rdblquote , and they have been quick to pick up on that fact.  is for people who deal with people, not just for police personnel. I think it significant that I see \ldblquote The System\rdblquote  on the desks or by the phones of very successful and respected business people. They practice what Terry preaches and benefit from his teachings. They, too, aren\rquote t surprised at the continued and growing demand for . \par
If you are a first-time reader of Terry Barker, take the time to enjoy this book and prepare yourself to experience the magic and success of \ldblquote The System\rdblquote . (W.E.(Ed) Hill) S/Sgt. NCO i/c Hope RCMP Detachment Hope, B.C. January 17. 1995. \page  \par
\b Bad day at the office \par
\b0 The Sergeant calls me in, and I can tell from the way he invites me to close the door that he wants me to volunteer for something I'm going to regret. His body language always telegraphs his mood: when he's going to tear strips off, he closes the door himself. No, that's not right \emdash  he slams it. But when he means to be subtle, and get you to offer your bod for some task you're going to hate yourself for in the morning, he remembers what he learned on the Police Managers' Course and gets you to shut it. I'm sure of it when he waves me to the corner chair instead of the across-the-desk one. \par
\ldblquote Matt,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote I've got a little problem I want you to help me with.\rdblquote  \par
After 18 years in the Force I've learned that the \ldblquote Sergeant's Little Problem\rdblquote  usually means the \ldblquote Constable's Big Disaster\rdblquote . \ldblquote I'm pretty busy these days,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote what with the manpower shortage, the paper work, and the \emdash  \rdblquote\par
 \ldblquote Yeah, yeah. I know. But this is special. Matt, you're the only one who can do this job. Your experience. Your communication skills. Your System. Matt, I want you to partner up with Burns.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Tacky Burns?\rdblquote  \ldblquote No, not Tacky, it's Jim \emdash  Jim Burns. Where do you guys get this \lquote Tacky\rquote  stuff, anyways?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Search me,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote It's his nickname. He won't discuss it \emdash  makes a bit of a mystery out of it, actually. Sometimes he gets called The Tack, or just plain Tack.\rdblquote  \par
I could have mentioned that the sergeant has a nickname too. The guys call him Zorro \emdash  because of how he slashes their reports to pieces with a red pen. He sure as hell wouldn't want to hear that though, so I go on about Tacky Burns: \par
\ldblquote I guess he picked it up somehow, like everyone does,\rdblquote  I say. \par
\ldblquote He's knocked around for enough years. Personally, I think a more appropriate name for him would be \lquote Grunt\rquote . Or maybe \lquote Animal\rquote . Hey, come on, Sarge, what have I ever done to you to deserve this? Burns is a savage.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote I want you to start tomorrow, Matt,\rdblquote  he says, looking out the window and ignoring my comment. \par
\ldblquote I want you to educate him. Teach him The System \emdash  all those great people skills of yours. Help him learn to deal with the complainants and drunks and crotchety old folks, all that routine stuff that he always screws up and you never do. I admit that he's great in a pinch, but how much of your career is spent in pinches? Jim Burns is a diamond in the rough, Matt: I want you to polish him.\rdblquote  \par
Diamond in the rough, yeah. But there are some other adjectives that come to mind: like crude, rude, coarse, gamy, gross, uncouth, crass, vulgar, and \emdash  primitive. That's the one that fits best. Tacky Burns is a Neanderthal. A throw-back to the dawn of time. \par
\ldblquote He has a gift,\rdblquote  the sergeant continues reflectively, \ldblquote for turning minor problems into major situations. When he sees a brush fire he throws gasoline on it. Perfectly nice people foam at the mouth when they talk about him. Believe me, I spend a lot of time trying to smooth waters he has troubled. It's time something was done.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote But, Sergeant \emdash  \rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Start tomorrow, Matt. Teach him The System.\rdblquote  \par
\par
Tacky Burns slides in beside me and says, \ldblquote Putting on weight again, eh, Matt? Think there's room for both of us in the front seat? Eh? Eh? Shit! Jeez, I didn't know I'd be sharing a car with a eggplant.\rdblquote  Eggplant? \par
 He has an eye for the jugular, The Tack has. It's true that I've gained a few pounds around the middle, but only someone with less sensitivity than a tub of buttocks would actually mention it. Sam, my ex-wife, used to refer to me as a bald stork wearing glasses. Or, occasionally, six feet of string with a knot in the middle. I didn't appreciate her jokes much but even they were preferable to eggplant. \par
I say, \ldblquote Tack, did the sergeant say anything to you about why he partnered us up?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Yeah. He says you're going to teach me people skills.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote How do you feel about it?\rdblquote  \par
The Tack looks me in the eye and says, \ldblquote Hey, what difference does it make, how I feel? There's only one way to deal with people, man \emdash  pow, right in the kisser. Shit. Most people are pond scum, that's how I feel. Anyway, what's wrong with the way I do my job? It's worked OK for me so far, ain't it?\rdblquote  \ldblquote You think this is going to be a pointless exercise?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote It's all pensionable time, man,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote If the sergeant wants me to drive around with you and learn to be a fuckin bleeding heart social worker \emdash  well, that's OK with me.\rdblquote  \par
I think about Tacky Burns. He's a seven year member with a good reputation for being there when you need him, and a bad reputation for too much drinking and a negative attitude. He hangs out with some of our more cynical brethren and has been known to start more than his share of fights after imbibing too much at \ldblquote choir practices\rdblquote , which he attends religiously. I scan him out of the corner of my eye. I see a stocky white male about five eleven, probably weighing in at a little over two hundred. He always needs a shave: cursed by a Nixon beard, he has a permanent all-day five o' clock shadow. What do I know about my new partner? For one thing, I know he's the office arm-wrestling champ. For another, he's a better than average hockey enthusiast. I classify myself as a pretty dedicated sports fan, but The Tack can recite detailed stats about hockey players so obscure that I never even heard of them. He tells the funniest war stories and the filthiest dirty jokes. He's a happy drunk, even in a fight: when he's on the floor nursing a bloody nose, he's laughing at the same time. He drives a muscle car that he maintains himself. He won't let even a skilled professional mechanic touch it. He models himself on the Sixties TV cop, Kojak. He watches NYPD Blue and yells out loud when they bag a bad guy. He loves the \ldblquote Police Academy\rdblquote  movies but he doesn't realize that they're supposed to be comedy. He dislikes female members, though he admits they're useful for strip searches and admin. He's what they call a man's man, and a lot of the guys look up to him. He's married and has a family, but never mentions them. He doesn't bring them to any of our functions. We've never met his wife or his kids. He doesn't participate in the incessant bragging that we all do about our bright, strong, obedient and perfect children, and our beautiful, intelligent wives.  \par
I ask around and come up with some facts and opinions. He was born in a small Manitoba town twenty-seven years before. His father named him James William, after his own father, who came from the U.K. Father and grandfather were both silent by nature. His mother, Olga Sophie, spoke little English. Thus young James William Burns (aka \ldblquote Tacky\rdblquote ) was raised in a painfully silent environment where the most sparkling dinner conversation consisted of \ldblquote Pass the salt\rdblquote . His father ran the town hardware store. Young Jim helped out from age seven, learning how to talk to the customers (\ldblquote Got a number two file?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yep.\rdblquote  \ldblquote How much?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Two bucks.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Gimme one.\rdblquote ) He worked in his father's store for two years after graduating from high school. Then he decided to become a police officer. When asked why, he shrugs and says things like, \ldblquote I was bored.\rdblquote  Sometimes he says he doesn't know. Once he let on that he \ldblquote wanted to do high speed car chases.\rdblquote  There is a story that he gained the nickname in police academy because he once bought up all the sticky buns and tried to \ldblquote merchandise\rdblquote  them to the other guys. The nickname began as \ldblquote Sticky\rdblquote  but changed to \ldblquote Tacky\rdblquote  because it was a \ldblquote tacky\rdblquote  thing to do. I doubt that this is true. \par
What I do not doubt is that he learned at the Academy \emdash  selectively learned, that is \emdash  that there are only two kinds of people \emdash  police officers and jerks. He graduated from the Academy with average marks. He spent his first couple of years on general duty and traffic patrol. He learned to take the heat for senior members' mistakes. His trainer in the crucial first six months was a burnout named Dozer Dempster who taught Tacky how to sing in the choir, avoid work, and above all dominate and scare hell out of the jerks. \par
Tack's favourite example of \ldblquote jerk-hood\rdblquote  is a raving drunk blaming the other driver as police are digging bodies out of the wreckage. Another: a rapist explaining that it was his victim's fault for wearing a tight dress. Yet another: a molester virtuously justifying himself while you try to comfort an abused child. His world is full of pond scum. After seven years, The Tack has learned that when the phone rings it's always bad news. He is cynical, hardened, belligerent, aggressive and abrasive \emdash  the very qualities demonstrated by the police officers he most admires \emdash  and he's content to be that way. He feels unappreciated by the Force. Others get good assessments, cushy courses, neat jobs; he is passed by. Those who get promoted are wimps in his book. They are the kind of members who seldom get involved in confrontations the way he does. He thinks they are cowards. He does not see a promotion in his own future. He resents jerks calling about barking dogs and noisy parties when he has all this paper work to do. He isn't good at paper work \emdash  spelling and grammar are not his strong suits \emdash  and when jerks bother him with trivia it means staying late to struggle with the typewriter. So he is short with them. To cut short the time you must spend dealing with jerks \emdash  be short yourself! \par
Once he attended a communication course for constables with me. He said it was all a lot of bull. His buddies said so too. And the ones who didn't say so were jerks. He survives each day by being aggressive or indifferent with the public, convinced it's the only way (there's only one way, man; POW, right in the kisser). His tone of voice is flat and unfriendly. His body language is cold and aloof.  And this is the guy Sarge wants me to teach The System to \emdash  a guy with the verbal skill than a pile of wet underwear, and about as much personal warmth as a dead cow. \par
\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  I finally say, \ldblquote let's get going.\rdblquote  I put the car in gear and we drive down Lake Street. I don't have much hope for this enterprise, but if this is what Sarge wants me to do, here goes. \par
\ldblquote So,\rdblquote  I start, \ldblquote let's talk about your run-in with Mrs. O'Brian last Thursday.\rdblquote  \par
\par
But before we get a chance to talk about Mrs. O'Brian, we're responding to a complaint. Two men are reported to be publicly boozing it up and playing rowdy music in a small neighbourhood park up in the Gerrold Heights area. You should know that Gerrold Heights is a ritzy section of town, up in the hills above the orchards and the lake. The view is terrific, though the folks who live there are not. Most of them are professional people, managers, owners of big companies, or simply retired after a life of successful and undetected crime. No one else could afford one of these homes, let alone pay the wages it must take to pay the staff required just to maintain the grounds. Or serve them tea in the drawing room. Hell, I wouldn't even be able to pay the taxes. We drive to the complainant's home. Surprise, surprise. It's a colonial mansion with stone pillars and a white crushed oyster-shell driveway. What was I expecting, a hut? The complainant looks like a retired British Army colonel \emdash  a bluff, hearty, ruddy-complexioned man with a generous white moustache, a robust build, and a snotty foghorn voice. Then I think to myself that this guy's no colonel. Anyone who lives in a place like this needs a lot more than a military pension, just to service the interest on the mortgage. But regardless of his history, he's a man used to being obeyed. And right now he's royally pissed off. \par
\ldblquote Those men down there,\rdblquote  he shouts, pointing to a small park three-quarters enclosed by the houses at the end of the cul-de-sac. \ldblquote They've been disturbing the peace! Drinking beer and playing loud music in full view of the houses here! What an example for our youth!\rdblquote  I case the area and wonder how many children there might be. Not many. This street is Terminal Row. Nobody lives here under age ninety-five.\par
\ldblquote I insist that you go down there and arrest them,\rdblquote  he says. \par
So I tell the colonel we'll check the situation out, and we cruise on down to the park. \par
\ldblquote Lemme handle this one,\rdblquote  says the Tack. \ldblquote You aren't the only one around here who knows how to handle routine cases. Lemme show you how I deal with them.\rdblquote  \par
Without waiting for an answer, he sashays over to a laurel hedge where two men of dark complexion are sitting on a blanket. One of them has a guitar, which he puts down as we approach. \ldblquote Good evening, officers,\rdblquote  he says politely in what might be a Portuguese accent. The Tack gives me a look as if to say, Now watch me do some real stuff here. \par
 Then he turns to the two and barks, \ldblquote Don't gimme none a that Good evenin shit!\rdblquote  He looms over them like Godzilla. \ldblquote You jerks have been drinking beer in a public place contrary to statute, and disturbing the peace.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote But sir,\rdblquote  Guitar Man says, \ldblquote we are not drinking alcoholic beverages.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote If you rub sand in my ointment,\rdblquote  Tacky says, \ldblquote I'll do the Virginia Reel on your head.\rdblquote  He waggles his baton threateningly around in the air. \par
\ldblquote Now lemme see those cans.\rdblquote  He points to some aluminum cans partly concealed under the blanket.\par
\ldblquote Certainly, sir,\rdblquote  Guitar Man says, and tugs at the edge of the blanket. Out come the cans. The labels read: DIET PEPSI The Tack looks a bit stressed, but he's still running on a full tank of adrenalin. \par
\ldblquote OK,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote so maybe you weren't drinking. But we got a complaint from the neighbours here that you were sure as hell disturbing the peace.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote But, Officer,\rdblquote  says Guitar Man politely, \ldblquote how could we be doing that? No. We were just quietly singing some old country folk songs. We have no amplifying equipment. No one could hear us from the sidewalk, let alone in any of those houses. I assure you, sir, we have not done anything wrong.\rdblquote  \par
At this point The Tack should admit that he blew it and pull out. But his ego has taken a beating. This is the famous \ldblquote Short Fuse\rdblquote  Burns we're talking about here, remember. He loses his cool completely, switches into his Mad Dog persona, and pulls out his cuffs. \par
\ldblquote I should bag you guys for loitering,\rdblquote  he yells. But now Guitar Man is getting mad too. \par
\ldblquote I want your name!\rdblquote  he demands. \ldblquote What's your badge number! I have friends at City Hall! I'll see to it that you'll spend the rest of your career on garbage detail!\rdblquote  \par
I soothe the man and drag The Tack away before he can make an even bigger fool of himself than he already has. We leave the park in disgrace and drive around the block. We park. \ldblquote Asshole,\rdblquote  The Tack says, referring to Guitar Man. \par
\ldblquote Why do you call him an asshole ?\rdblquote  I ask. \par
\ldblquote He's guilty as shit.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Of what?\rdblquote  I demand. \par
\ldblquote Sitting in the park? Playing his guitar? Drinking Pepsi, for God's sake?\rdblquote  \par
Tack has the decency to look abashed. \par
\ldblquote OK,\rdblquote  he says at last. \ldblquote So how would you have handled it?\rdblquote  \par
This would be the right moment to teach Tack about The System, but there's a tap on the car window. A trendy kid of maybe eleven or twelve is leaning his mountain bike against the fender, watching us. He taps again. \par
\ldblquote Hey,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote you guys are parked in a no parking zone. I thought cops were supposed to obey the law. Great example you set for us kids.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Bug off, rodent,\rdblquote  Tacky growls, \ldblquote or I'll send your parts home to your Dad in a flat envelope.\rdblquote  This is too much for me. My job is to teach this ox, but not to let him trash my beat. So I interrupt and say, \par
\ldblquote Hey, kid, what's your name?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote What's it to you?\rdblquote  he says, offended. \par
\ldblquote Just wondered,\rdblquote  I say. \par
\ldblquote My name's Matt. Don't pay any attention to my partner here \emdash  he's had a bad day. Hop in and I'll show you how the siren works.\rdblquote  \par
The kid gives me the careful once-over, but after a while he lets on that his name is John. Then he jumps into the back seat and I show him where all the controls are. I even bop the siren for him briefly. Five minutes later he decides to become an officer when he grows up. He yells his thanks as he pedals off. \ldblquote Waste of time, being nice to kids,\rdblquote  The Tack says. \ldblquote Give em half a chance, they'll knife you in the old wazoo.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Now you listen to me,\rdblquote  I lecture him. \ldblquote Kids today are on the razor's edge. How we treat them decides what kind of adults we'll have to deal with in a few years. If we can get them on our side now \emdash  and it's pretty easy to do, it doesn't take much time or energy \emdash  we've got supporters for life. Listen, when I wade into a pub fight ten years from now that kid might be there to back me up. All because instead of putting him down with a \i bug off\i0  I showed some interest.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote You're a damn social worker,\rdblquote  The Tack says. \par
\ldblquote It's not social work. It's officer survival.\rdblquote  \par
He stubbornly clams up. End of dialogue. At our station, Sarge has a sacred rule that we have to obey even if it costs us a coffee break. It's called NOTIFICATION OF COMPLAINANT. Whenever a complainant calls, we have to report back later and let them know how things turned out. Sarge says it's the cheapest and easiest kind of PR there is; it costs only a few minutes but it pays huge dividends in public support. And even though I do find it a bit of a personal nuisance some times, I have to agree with him. It really does pay off. \par
\ldblquote Let's get back and notify the complainant,\rdblquote  I say. \par
\ldblquote Come on, Matt, lemme do it, eh?\rdblquote  Tacky says. \ldblquote I admit I screwed up before, but lemme try again, OK? I can be tactful when I have to be.\rdblquote  \par
I shrug: Why not? After all, how much trouble can he get into over a simple notification? I soon learn. \par
We mosey back to the Colonel's mansion.  The Tack doesn't ring the bell like normal people do: instead, he raps his baton smartly on the door. I can hear it echoing inside. It sounds like the clap of doom. The Colonel whaps open the door and his mouth at the same time: \ldblquote Those men are still down there in my park!\rdblquote  he hollers. \ldblquote I thought I told you to go down and arrest them!\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  Tacky says, practicing tact, \ldblquote let's just cool down here. They aren't actually doing anything I can arrest them for.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote What? Are you saying that you don't believe me? I've told you that those men were drinking and disturbing the peace. Now haul your asses down there and truck them away! My taxes pay your salary!\rdblquote\par
But Tacky has heard that one once too often. His body language becomes aggressive and electric. His face flushes, his shoulders hunch, he leans forward, and he sticks his finger in the Colonel's face. The hell with tact. \ldblquote Listen here, Asshole,\rdblquote  he snaps, \ldblquote you probably don't even pay taxes, for Chrissake. All you rich guys have a free ride. What do you do for a living, peddle smack?\rdblquote  I fear that the Colonel is going to have a coronary right there on his doorstep, so I move in fast. \ldblquote What my partner means to say,\rdblquote  I say smoothly, \ldblquote is that of course we're certainly here to protect you. There is nothing so annoying as people disturbing the peace. We'll be glad to arrest those men.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  the Colonel says, \ldblquote that's more like it!\rdblquote   \ldblquote We really appreciate it when people have enough public spirit to call on us in matters like this. However, we do have a problem here.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Problem? What damn problem!\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote The problem as I see it,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote is that (as my partner here has pointed out) we don't have any evidence. There's no booze bottles, nothing on their breath. So if we do arrest them, how do we make it stick?\rdblquote  He glares at me. \ldblquote However,\rdblquote  I go on, \ldblquote there is a way....\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  he demands, \ldblquote what is it?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote If you'd be willing to testify in court that you actually were disturbed....?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote What, me go to court?\rdblquote  he says. \par
\ldblquote I realize that it's an imposition to ask someone as busy as yourself to attend court, but as you pointed out earlier, you do pay the taxes that pay our wages, and that's a kind of a contract, isn't it? I mean, we work together to keep the streets safe for the neighbourhood kids. We arrest the bad guys, then you identify them in court and provide the evidence that puts them away. So if you're willing to play your part....\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote I don't want to go to court,\rdblquote  he says. \par
\ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote that does give us a problem.\rdblquote  I wait.\par
 \ldblquote Oh, hell,\rdblquote  he says at last. \ldblquote I guess it's not major enough to go through all that. Hey, listen, thanks for coming out. Nothing we can do about it? You sure?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote I guess,\rdblquote  I say, and shrug eloquently. \par
\ldblquote I think that the damn laws should have some real teeth, but I get your point \emdash  you don't make the laws, do you? Well, what the hell, thanks for coming out.\rdblquote  He goes in and shuts the door. Tack stares at me. \par
\ldblquote How did you do that?\rdblquote  he finally asks. \par
\ldblquote I used The System.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote You keep talking about The System. What system?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Putting it positively,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote The System is a way of getting other people to want to do what you want them to want to do. Or, putting it negatively, it's how you tell people to go to hell so professionally that they can't wait to make the trip.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Yeah, but how did you do it? I'd of had him in a hammerlock if you hadn't bailed me out....\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote I didn't want to have to answer to Sarge when that jerk complains about us,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote So it was worth spending five minutes to tranquilize him.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote My system,\rdblquote  Tacky mutters. \ldblquote is to wallop the bad guys to the floor. Make them do the chicken.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote OK \emdash  and you need that. But how much of your career is actually spent in direct physical confrontation? The average officer spends at most ten hours of his thirty year career in fighting or dodging bullets. The rest of the time is routine. Tack, if you can learn to pacify people instead of riling them up, your job gets easier. The less you have to actually do, the better.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote I always thought of a good officer as someone who's bigger and stronger than the guys he has to fight,\rdblquote  he says. \par
\ldblquote Yeah? Well I think a good officer is someone who's so much smarter than the bad guys that he never has to put his dukes up.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Well, I'll be go to hell,\rdblquote  Tack says. \ldblquote I never thought about it that way before.\rdblquote  I think a light just went on under Tack's toque. \par
\par
\b The System\par
\b0 Later, at the Pizza Parlour, we pick up our interrupted conversation about Mrs. O'Brian. \par
\ldblquote How did that go?\rdblquote  I ask. \ldblquote Refresh my memory.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote The woman's a jerk,\rdblquote  he says. He doesn't volunteer any more. \par
\ldblquote Well, as I recall it,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote you were taking complaints that day. The phone rang. You answered the way you always do \emdash  Police. Constable Burns. Flat as pavement.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote So what's wrong with that? \ldblquote  he flares. \ldblquote It's what I'm supposed to say, for Chrissake.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote What's \i wrong with it\i0  is your voice. You sound like you're doing the caller a big favour just by picking up the phone. As if you're sure in advance that whatever their stupid complaint is, it's not going to be worth your while to bother with it. It's an attitude that you present to the public: it seems to say, 'Don't you know I've got better things to do?'\ldblquote  \par
\ldblquote Tone of voice? Come on.\rdblquote\par
 \ldblquote You think that's not important?\rdblquote  I demand. \ldblquote Well, it might not have been to you, but it sure was to her. That whole incident was the most important thing in her life at that moment. That's the problem: things like barking dogs and noisy neighbours are just bug shit to you, but to the people who phone you and complain, it's the end of the world. If you don't take it seriously, the thing escalates. What happened after the phone call?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Uh...Mrs. O'Brian came down personally to complain about me.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote And how did you handle it?\rdblquote\par
 \ldblquote Right out of the book,\rdblquote  he snaps. \ldblquote I took her name and address \emdash\ldblquote  \par
\ldblquote Yeah, and I can imagine how. Short and abrupt all the way, just like you're doing now,\rdblquote  I say. \par
\ldblquote The Sarge had to come out and tell you to cool it. It took him over an hour to calm her down. She wanted your badge for a dog license.\rdblquote  Tacky looks embarrassed. \par
\ldblquote Maybe I was a bit abrupt,\rdblquote  he admits. \ldblquote But that's just the way I am. Anyways, what's the difference, for Chrisssake? So she comes down and complains, so what?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Well, what did it cost you? How much of your time did it take?\rdblquote  I ask. \ldblquote How long did you have to stay after work to get caught up with the files you should have been working on instead of getting reamed out in the Sarge's office?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Big fuckin deal.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Yeah, it is. Look, that situation was routine. The right strategy is to defuse routine situations in five minutes or less. If you'd take the time to deal properly with people like Mrs. O'Brian in five minutes, they wouldn't come down to the detachment and stir up a big fuss. And get you in trouble.\rdblquote  Tacky is silent for a few minutes. Finally he says, \ldblquote OK \emdash  how would you handle it, Hot-shot?\rdblquote  \ldblquote There's a way,\rdblquote  I say. \par
 \ldblquote So teach it to me,\rdblquote  he sneers. \ldblquote Isn't that what you're supposed to be doing?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Sure. Here's Lesson One \emdash  learn to control your big ugly sarcastic mouth,\rdblquote  I say, gritting my teeth. I learned about The System myself from a friend of mine who once worked as a complaints clerk at Sears. He called it \ldblquote The Five-Fold Path\rdblquote  because it has five parts to it. I just call it \ldblquote The System\rdblquote . The job of a complaints clerk isn't so different from ours. They have to deal with people over the counter \emdash  so do we. We're in the people business too. Over the years I learned how to apply his approach to our work, and it's passed the test. It's not easy, trying to describe something as fragile as The System to Tacky Burns, but this is how the lecture goes: Police officers can use The System (I explain to Tacky) to get in and out of problem situations in five minutes or less. \par
\par
There are five clearly identifiable steps in dealing with difficult people: \par
\par
STEP ONE is to manage your own natural feelings. Most folks, when they start an interaction with police, are in a state of emotion. In other words, they may start with a short fuse or no fuse at all. When they confront you in person their very body language may tense you up even before they open their mouths: hands on hips or arms crossed, jaw thrust forward, face flushed or livid. If they're on the phone the voice is high or rapid, and they often sound abusive. The natural human response is to meet anger with anger. But our anger only fuels their anger. We have to learn to think of anger as the price of admission \emdash  in other words, anger is what we have to put up with just to do our job. Or putting it another way, other people's anger is our job. I pull out my notebook and write: 1. Control Your Anger This isn't something you can do on the spur of the moment. When some crummy teenager calls you a pig, every last gram of adrenalin naturally surges right smack to your baton hand and you want to lash out. No, you have to think it out beforehand \emdash  have a positive philosophy. A police officer, like a complaints clerk, has to understand the job as dealing with difficult people. Then once you think of it that way it's not such a shock when they behave like jerks. \par
\par
STEP TWO is to listen intently and accurately to what the other person is trying to tell you. That's not as easy as it sounds. Most of us are lousy listeners. There are two principles however, which help us not only to listen better, but also to let the other person know we're listening. The first principle is to ASK QUESTIONS. Don't take what the other person is saying for granted. You may have misunderstood, or maybe they\rquote re too discombobulated to get their facts straight. So ask clarifying questions to make sure you got the information right. The second principle is to GIVE FEEDBACK. From time to time, repeat back what you think the other person said and let them check it out. Did you hear them right? The only way you'll know is by letting them compare your interpretation with theirs. Feed back to them what you think you heard and ask them if that's what they thought you said. If you ASK QUESTIONS and GIVE FEEDBACK, you'll not only be more accurate, but also you'll defuse the other person's anger. How can they stay mad at someone who's obviously trying really hard to listen to them? \par
\par
Step Two, therefore is: 2. Listen and Check. \par
\par
STEP THREE in The System is to let the other person know that you understand how they feel.  My friend the complaints clerk said this took him longer to master than the other steps because he's the kind of guy who isn't very comfortable dealing with emotions \emdash  especially other people's. My friend wasn't comfortable expressing his own feelings, either. Ask his wife. (I was the same. You could ask Sam. She'd tell you how limited I used to be in expressing feelings. How many times did she ask me if I loved her? Why couldn't I ever tell her?) A lot of members have this problem. It comes with being macho. But the fact is that all of us, including macho police officers, operate on at least two different levels. One level is facts \emdash  what happened, who's involved, the time and date, that kind of thing. Most of us are okay with that. The other level, though, is harder. People sometimes communicate badly because they`re hurting inside. Or they're hostile. Or they're scared. Simple statements like, \ldblquote I know how it feels,\rdblquote  or \ldblquote Yeah, that must really hurt,\rdblquote  go a long way toward developing good communications on the feelings level, and it costs you absolutely nothing. For instance, after someone has told you about how the other driver came through the red light at a zillion miles an hour and barely missed them, you should not only feed back the data (make and colour of car, etc.), but also let them know you heard their feelings. Say something like, \ldblquote Boy, you must have felt like an avalanche was coming at you!\rdblquote   So Step Three is to let people know that you understand how they feel.  \i Have empathy\i0 . Now, if you've done the first three things right you've built a communications bridge between you and the other person. You've demonstrated your own willingness to listen, so they likely will reciprocate \emdash  that is, they'll listen to you. And you've shown them that you care.\par
\par
STEP FOUR is to get them on your side. You do this best by involving them in the solution to the problem. That might be as simple as just asking them to hold something, or as complex as asking for suggestions as to how to deal with a situation. People aren't hostile while they're helping. Folks returning unsatisfactory merchandise to a store don't stay mad if you ask them whether they would prefer their money back or replacement of the product. They get very upset when you try to dictate a solution to them, however. People sing the praises of police when they feel part of the action. A woman who gave coffee to some members of an emergency response team during an all-day barricade still talks about the \ldblquote nice cops\rdblquote  in a proprietary way to her friends.  If you can safely get people into things so that they feel personally involved, you move their energy around so it's with you instead of against you. \par
\par
Step Four is to: 4. Involve \par
\par
STEP FIVE is to get the show on the road. But this is a paradox. Even though the steps you've taken up till now are preparations to action, if you did them well you probably won't have to act at all. The first four steps take about five minutes. If they worked OK, then you're finished. Out. No beatings. No arrests. No jerks coming down to the station to whine about the Ugly Police Officer. On the other hand, The System isn't an excuse to walk away from your responsibilities, either. If someone complains about a loud party next door \emdash  and the officer listens well, empathizes, gets them involved, and then does nothing \emdash  he can expect complaints. \ldblquote A nice person,\rdblquote  they'll say, \ldblquote but ineffectual.\rdblquote  \par
\par
 So as the final step in The System: 5. Act \emdash  But Only If All else fails \par
\par
When I've finished telling Tacky all this, I write it down on a piece of paper and hand it to him: The System 1. Control your anger 2. Listen and check 3. Empathize 4. Involve 5. Act (if necessary!)\par
\page  \ldblquote So,\rdblquote  I conclude, \ldblquote these are five steps to good people skills \emdash  control your own anger, listen, empathize, involve, and act.\rdblquote  \ldblquote All very easy for you, no doubt,\rdblquote  Tacky says. \ldblquote You have a natural talent. But I don't. They used to call me Mad Dog at school. I've always had a hair-trigger temper.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Is that why they call you Tacky?\rdblquote  For a moment I think he's going to take a swing at me. But then he relaxes and even gives me a wintry smile. \ldblquote Maybe I'll tell you about that some day,\rdblquote  he says. I shrug. \ldblquote Let's see how those steps would have applied to Mrs. O'Brian last Thursday,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote How did she sound on the phone?\rdblquote  \ldblquote She was screaming something about a burglary but I couldn't understand much of what she was saying.\rdblquote  \ldblquote What did you say to her?\rdblquote  \ldblquote I told her to pipe down. How the hell could I do anything if I didn't know what was biting her?\rdblquote  \ldblquote You told her to pipe down? You asked her what was biting her? In those words?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Well...yeah,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote Hmm. Can you think of a better way?\rdblquote  Tacky thinks for a moment. \ldblquote Naw,\rdblquote  he says, but I can tell from his tone of voice that he's just being stubborn. \par
\par
 \ldblquote Well, if you'd used the five steps,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote you would have first got your own temper under control. You would have reminded yourself that screaming people are the job sometimes. Second, you would have listened to her better.\rdblquote  \ldblquote How?\rdblquote  \ldblquote You could have said something like...Pardon me, I'm trying to write down the details, what's your name, address, and so on....\rdblquote  \ldblquote Uh-huh,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote But how about empathy? How am I supposed to show empathy to an old bat like that?\rdblquote  \ldblquote To show empathy you might have said something like, It's a terrible feeling to have your place broken into. Or, It's like an invasion of your personal privacy, isn't it? Just some mundane words to let her know that you understand how she feels. \ldblquote Then for the fourth step, involvement, you would have asked her to make a detailed list of everything missing. And for the final step \emdash  act \emdash  tell her we'll have a car out there within the hour.\rdblquote  He nods. I continue: \ldblquote You should have let her know that you were interested in her and cared about her problem. You have to do that by tone of voice and inflections \emdash  she can't see your body language over the phone, you know. All she has to go by is how you sound. So you make an extra effort to come across as sympathetic. Let her know you understand how she feels.\rdblquote  He nods again. \ldblquote But,\rdblquote  I conclude, \ldblquote you didn't do any of those things.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Hell, Matt,\rdblquote  he grins, \ldblquote that just ain't my style.\rdblquote  \par
\page  \ldblquote The nice thing about styles,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote is you're not stuck with the one you have, any more than with your golf swing. If you want to change your golf swing, you hire the pro. If you want to change your people style \emdash  well, you look at all the styles and pick one. Styles aren't hereditary, you know.\rdblquote  Tacky takes a long drink of his coffee. \ldblquote Now what about those guys in the park?\rdblquote  he asks. \ldblquote How would your System have handled them?\rdblquote  \ldblquote You tell me,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote Remember the five points: control your anger, listen and check, empathize, involve, and act (if you have to). How could you apply those ideas to the park scenario?\rdblquote  \par
\par
He leans back and closes his eyes. \ldblquote Let's see,\rdblquote  he muses. \ldblquote Step One is to control anger. Well, I have to admit I sure didn't do that. I should have taken a deep breath and counted to ten before I strolled over to those two dudes. Step Two: listen and check. Nope, I didn't do that either. I should have asked them what they were doing there. Step Three: empathize. Hell, I didn't get that far.\rdblquote  \ldblquote So what should you have done?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Umm \emdash  well, I guess I could have relaxed a bit \emdash  smiled at them \emdash  and maybe flattered them some about their music. Then ask them if they realize they're bugging the neighbours. Then....tell them that I understand that it's hard to find a good place to practice \emdash  ?\rdblquote  I nod. \ldblquote If you had done that they wouldn't have threatened to have your badge changed to dog-catcher. Instead they would have thanked you for your interest and gone on their merry way.\rdblquote  \ldblquote What about the Colonel?\rdblquote  he asks, interested now. \ldblquote How did you work The System on him?\rdblquote  \par
\par
 \ldblquote First I had to work at controlling my anger,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote I reminded myself that this bad-tempered idiot is actually my bread and butter. Without ding-dongs like him, I don't have a job. \ldblquote Second, I really listened to the complainant. There's nothing so flattering as being intently listened to. \ldblquote Third, I showed empathy \emdash  told him I understood how he felt. \ldblquote By the time I got to the fourth part, involvement, he pulled out. People often do. People mostly don't like to get involved with the law if they can help it. \ldblquote So I never needed the fifth step, to act. That's the thing so many police officers don't understand \emdash  that if you do the first four steps right, you often don't have to do Step Five at all.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Step Five can be fun, though,\rdblquote  Tacky grins slyly. \ldblquote I know, but it's also the root of your problems. I'm not saying you shouldn't take action: far from it! What I am saying is that some officers \emdash  including you, Tacky Burns \emdash  take action when you don't need to. And those scenes come back to haunt you.\rdblquote  We stretch. Coffee is over and it's time to go to work. \ldblquote Let's go out and do us some Step Fives,\rdblquote  Tack says. \par
\page  Chapter Four: The Big Scoop \par
\par
I'm off duty for a couple of days, and when I get back Tacky is in disgrace once more. \ldblquote What happened?\rdblquote  I sigh. \ldblquote Don't gimme a hard time, okay?\rdblquote  Tack says defensively. \ldblquote It wasn't my fault. I did Step One perfectly \emdash  kept my temper, controlled myself, didn't fly off the handle. Your damn system just doesn't work, that's all.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Tell me about it,\rdblquote  I say. To understand what happened to Tack, you need to know that our detachment is a small terminal resort of about 50,000 folks. By \ldblquote terminal\rdblquote , I mean that tourists don't pass through; they come to stay for a couple weeks. We're on a lake in the center of a hot dry arid area, almost desert-like. The nearest towns are about fifty miles away in either direction. We get to do lots of highway patrol work in both directions, which is no sweat, but we do get somewhat fussed over the goons who like to get juiced and devastate the town, especially on public occasions such as our annual Lake Festival. \par
\par
 Which, to the delight of our noble merchants, has been going full blast all week. One of our major functions is what we call the \ldblquote Scoop\rdblquote : that is, we scoop up all the passed out bodies during the night, pop them in the tank, and release them next morning with a warning to sin no more. Usually they're pretty embarrassed and don't offer any resistance by that time. They just want to forget it ever happened. The Tack was on night shift, driving solo, and picked up a drunk who was lying on a lawn in a middle class neighbourhood. The owner of said lawn had called us, and Tacky scooped the body. \ldblquote Sounds straight to me,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote What's all the hoo-haw?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote the guy claimed he wasn't drunk.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Was he?\rdblquote  I ask. \ldblquote How the hell should I know? He looked drunk and I smelled liquor. So I scooped him.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Did you talk to him?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Listen,\rdblquote  Tack snarls, \ldblquote I didn't lose my cool, OK? Step One, right?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote but Step Two is to listen. Did you listen?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Well, some. I got his name \emdash  Abner Braun. But drunks always babble on. They never say much worth listening to. I mean, why waste time? There was lotsa guys laying around who needed to be scooped, and I was running late.\rdblquote  \ldblquote OK,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote so you scooped him and brought him back to the station. What then?\rdblquote  \par
\par
 \ldblquote I booked him, threw him in the tank, and went out for some more yahoos.\rdblquote  \ldblquote What's the problem, then?\rdblquote  I ask. He looks away. \ldblquote I forgot to tell him he could make a phone call.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Oh.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah. So Braun starts banging on his cell door half an hour later and demands a telephone. The duty officer says, \ldblquote You already had a phone call,\rdblquote  and the drunk denies it. The duty officer notices that the guy doesn't seem very drunk, so he says, OK, he can phone. The guy phones his wife, who turns out to be Ava Braun \emdash  you know the one, she owns the Commercial Arts trade school down on West Front Street. A very high powered woman. She came over and got him out. Seems as how he wasn't very drunk after all.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Ava Braun?\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote Isn't she the one who threw a party for us after we recovered all her computers last fall? Hey, she's one of our biggest fans.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah?\rdblquote  Tack says. \ldblquote Well, she ain't now.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Well, why was Abner Braun lying on someone else's lawn in the middle of the night, then?\rdblquote  Tack looks out the window. \ldblquote He's a musician,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote He was recording a track with his band at a sound recording studio, and found the smoke and noise was giving him a headache. So he wandered across the street about two A.M., sat down on a neighbour's lawn, and fell asleep. The neighbour got up for a pee, saw him, and called us.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Did he tell you all this?\rdblquote  \par
\par
 \ldblquote He was blabbing on about it, yeah,\rdblquote  Tacky says, \ldblquote but I didn't pay any attention. All goons have a cockamamie yarn of some kind, Matt.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Let me get this straight,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote You were in a hurry so you scooped this guy and didn't take the time to listen to his story. You booked him without giving him his phone call. Later he calls his wife and she gets him out. Is that it?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Well, that sounds bad but not disastrous.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, but you ain't heard the rest of it.\rdblquote  \ldblquote There's more?\rdblquote  I ask. \ldblquote Yeah. Next evening she phones the detachment. Asks to talk to the arresting officer. At first I don't even remember which case it was \emdash  hell, I scooped fifteen pisstanks that night, how am I supposed to tell them apart? Then she tells me that because of me his band couldn't finish its gig, and they can't book the studio again for two months. And that's going to cost them a big contract.\rdblquote  \ldblquote What did you say to her?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Look, Matt, I was really pooped, and I guess I have to admit that I, uh, didn't, um....\rdblquote  He trails off. \ldblquote Tack. Tell me what you said to her.\rdblquote  He sighs. \ldblquote Okay, but you're gonna be mad. I told her that her husband shouldn't have been on someone else's lawn in the first place. If you lay down with dogs, you get up with fleas, I say. I tell her that musicians are a bad lot, and she shouldn't hang around with them. She says, \lquote My husband tried to tell you what was happening, but you wouldn't listen.\rquote  I say, \lquote Lady, he was just one more pain in the ass to me.\rquote  Then she says she's going to sue. I mean, she's talking lawsuit here, buddy. Women!\rdblquote  \par
\par
 \ldblquote Oh, Tacky,\rdblquote  I say, shaking my head, \ldblquote you just gotta be the eighth wonder of the world.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Oh yeah?\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote What are the other seven?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Seven other guys almost as dumb as you,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote Listen, you did good to keep your temper and act professional, but you blew it when you wouldn't listen.\rdblquote  \ldblquote But the guy didn't say anything worth listening to.\rdblquote  \ldblquote How could you tell that if you didn't listen to him in the first place?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, well....\rdblquote  \ldblquote Remember what I said are the two big skills you need for good listening?\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote Uh...ask questions?\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote That's one,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote Asking questions. What's the other?\rdblquote  Tack doesn't remember. I refresh his memory. \ldblquote Feedback,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote Repeating back what you think you hear the other person saying. So you can be sure you hear him right, and also to encourage him to keep talking.\rdblquote  \ldblquote That guy was ranting and sputtering so much that I don't know if I could have repeated what he was saying.\rdblquote  \par
\par
 \ldblquote That's a problem,\rdblquote  I admit. \ldblquote Lots of times it's just crap, maybe even most of the time. But at least it's worth trying. It does pay off. Do you know why listening is such a crucial skill for police officers?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Sure,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote Cops get so bored being shot at and beat up and kicked in the nuts that they just plumb love to sit down and listen to the jerks babble on. I mean, they got nothing else to do, right?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Because,\rdblquote  I push on doggedly, \ldblquote it saves us from getting into jackpots like the one you're in now. If you'd only asked that guy some simple questions and checked the accuracy of your reception you wouldn't be facing a lawsuit.\rdblquote  \ldblquote I was in a hurry.\rdblquote  \ldblquote So you saved a few minutes. Now what's that going to cost you? Tell me, Cave Man, which is better: five minutes wasted paying attention to a drunk, or five days spent defending yourself in a court case?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Well....\rdblquote  \ldblquote I remember a professor on a course I took once,\rdblquote  I remark, \ldblquote who used to say that since we can't trust our senses worth a cop's butt, then how can we even hope to communicate effectively?\rdblquote  I fix The Tack with a cold eye and launch into my lecture. \ldblquote He meant that everything that we see and hear is only our opinion of what's really there,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote We actually perceive only a small part of all the billions of bits of information we're bombarded with. He thinks of us as living in 'reality dens' \emdash  with very limited perceptions. \ldblquote You know how unreliable witnesses sometimes can be, for instance. They don't see things as they 'are' \emdash  they see things as they interpret them. Then memory warps and corrupts and fades.\rdblquote  \par
\par
 \ldblquote That's true,\rdblquote  Tack says. \ldblquote On the course he used a neat exercise to prove how poorly we see \lquote what's out there\rquote . He announced that he was going to test the accuracy of our perceptions. Then he flashed a transparency on the screen. Here, let me write it down for you.\rdblquote  I turn my back so he can't see me scribble some words on a piece of paper, then hand it to him: PARISPARISPARISPARISINTHEINTHEINTHEINTHETHESPRINGTHESPRINGTHESPRINGTHESPRINGI let Tack look at it for five seconds, then take it away. \ldblquote OK, what did it say?\rdblquote  I ask. \ldblquote Paris in the spring, dickhead,\rdblquote  Tack says. \ldblquote See!\rdblquote  I shout triumphantly. \ldblquote You missed the second THE!\rdblquote  He snatches the paper back, checks it out, whistles. \ldblquote If it makes you feel better,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote the same thing happened to most of us in the classroom. He flashed it on the screen for five seconds, turned it off, then said, Now reproduce on a sheet of paper exactly what you saw. \par
\par
\ldblquote Bear in mind that we were all trained observers, police officers with years of experience; but 90% of us failed to see the second THE. \ldblquote His point was, If we are such failures at perceiving what we actually see, how much hope do we have of being able to explain any of it accurately to others?\rdblquote  \ldblquote What the blazes are you getting at?\rdblquote  Tacky asks. \ldblquote Bravo! You asked a question! That means two things to me: first, that you're interested in what we're talking about; and second, that you're taking part in the conversation. Very encouraging!\rdblquote  \ldblquote Don't get your drawers in a knot,\rdblquote  Tacky says. \ldblquote What I'm getting at,\rdblquote  I go on, \ldblquote is that communication is an iffy business at best, and that your life and continuing health depend on your being able to get the data you need from the people you come in contact with. They often make mistakes or withhold information. If you act on what they tell you (or don't tell you) without checking, you can get your ass in a sling.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Like now.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Like now,\rdblquote  I echo. He meditates. \ldblquote So you're saying,\rdblquote  he says at last, 'that it's worth my while to listen better because it will save me time and expense in the long run.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Excellent feedback,\rdblquote  I say, applauding. \ldblquote And that I need to actively take part, not just sit there. I have to ask questions and give feedback to the other person.\rdblquote  \par
\par
 \ldblquote Right!\rdblquote  \ldblquote So, now, then,\rdblquote  he says, actually thinking for the first time since we've been partners, \ldblquote how do I get this dame off my back?\rdblquote  Ten dreary rehearsals later, I think he's ready to phone the dame and apologize. The word apologize was the first hurdle. The Tack told me that cops are like banks \emdash  they NEVER apologize. I said OK, so let's not waste time on apologies: since you want to go to court, let's get you a lawyer instead. After he agreed that an apology was better than court, he complained that it was useless because she wouldn't listen to him anyway, considering how he treated her. I reminded him of our sterling performance in recovering her stolen computers last year and the party she threw, and said that there was enough good will in the bank to make it worth a try. He went along with me: what else could he do? That was the second hurdle. The third hurdle was getting him to listen. I played the role of Mrs. Braun. We must have gone through the scenario six times before he actually heard what I was saying to him, and twice more before he could respond without blowing it. \ldblquote I'll get on the other phone and listen in,\rdblquote  I tell him. \ldblquote But you're on your own. I won't interfere. Good luck.\rdblquote  The Tack dials her at her school. \ldblquote Ava Braun here,\rdblquote  she says in a meaty voice. \ldblquote How may I help you?\rdblquote  \par
\par
 \ldblquote This is Constable Burns again,\rdblquote  Tacky says. \ldblquote Well, you do have a nerve, calling me back after what you said.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, I'm real sorry about that. I guess I was having a bad day. Look, I understand how you must feel. Your husband was badly treated, and when you called to complain about it you got an abusive officer. I don't blame you for being put off.\rdblquote  There is a silence. \ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  she says slowly, \ldblquote that's generous of you, I must say....\rdblquote  \ldblquote Anyway,\rdblquote  he goes on, \ldblquote I just wanted to clear the air. It was all my fault, and I'm sorry about it.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Well...thank you,\rdblquote  she says, and I notice that her voice has lightened up. \ldblquote  We here at Commercial Arts have always had such good  relations with the police. When we had that break-in last fall, you were here in five minutes. That's why I was so surprised when you \emdash  \rdblquote  \ldblquote I guess nobody's perfect,\rdblquote  Tack says. \ldblquote Listen,\rdblquote  she says warmly, \ldblquote we'll just forget the whole thing, OK? The last thing in the world I want is to fight with you guys. Just keep doing a great job, OK?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, well, gee, thanks,\rdblquote  Tack says, and I can hear the astonishment in his voice. They say their goodbyes, and Tacky puts the phone down. \ldblquote See?\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote It was easy. Nothing to it. She didn't want a confrontation. She just wanted you to say you were sorry!\rdblquote  \ldblquote Well, I'll be dipped in shit,\rdblquote  he says wonderingly.\par
\par
Chapter Five: The two john does \par
\par
Tacky is starting to pick up his socks, and I'm just beginning to think maybe I should tell the Sarge that my partner is doing great and doesn't need me any more, when he blows it again. The Great T-Bird Caper happens while I'm away for a couple of days escorting a prisoner to the big smoke. Actually, The Tack isn't totally to blame. It's one of those situations where any good officer might go off the rails, no matter how skilled he is. By the time I get involved in this one, the Mayor has announced to the Sarge that she wants Tack's parts bronzed for paperweights. We're having a coffee at the usual spot on my first night back, and I'm telling Tacky how pleased I am with his progress, when he says, \ldblquote Yeah, I know, but it don't always work.\rdblquote  \ldblquote What doesn\rquote t always work?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Your System don't always work, man,\rdblquote  he says gloomily, ignoring my grammatical edit. \ldblquote Her Worship the Mayor wants my gonads pulled out through my nostrils.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Why? What have you done now?\rdblquote  \ldblquote So help me, Matt, I did everything right. I followed all your damn rules, but the roof still caved in!\rdblquote  \par
\par
 The Tack goes on to tell me that while I was away, a young man named John Doe came down to the station and asked Tacky for his help. Yes, Virginia, there really are people named John Doe, and this was one of them. Tack managed to restrain his natural urge to comment on how well the guy looked \emdash  for a corpse, that is \emdash  and instead asked how he could help. Very professional, I thought, and told him so. Seems that a week ago young John Doe had been granted grudging permission to drive his father's precious, aging and irreplaceable T-Bird to the big smoke. While there, the damn thing conked out. He got it towed to a small back-alley garage where the mechanic, a Boris Karloff look-alike, said he would have to order some parts, and would Our Boy like a loaner in the meantime? Our Boy, being a trusting soul from the boonies, thanked him very much and drove home in the loaner, a rusty '79 Pacer, leaving Daddy's beloved T-Bird behind. When he got home, his father (coincidentally also named John Doe) naturally wanted to know where his Bird had flown. Young John tells him about Boris Karloff and the back alley garage. He also admits that he doesn't have a receipt and he can't remember the name of the joint or the address. The old man flies into a rage and calls the boy fifty-seven varieties of dirty names. He orders the boy to return to the city and get his treasured car back for him. But instead, young John gets teed off and flounces out of the house, leaving his father fuming by the fireplace. \par
\par
Furthermore, instead  of going to the city as directed, the lad invites himself to a friend's place for a few days to cool off. It's at this point that the boy (without telling his father) hauls himself down to Ye Olde Coppe Shoppe and speaks to Tacky. But for some reason, instead of telling him all the details he just says that he isn't sure if the '79 Pacer is an OK car, and would Tack mind running an R.O. on it. Why do people do these things to us? My suspicion in this case is that young John meant to bare all to the police, but at the last moment withheld most of it \emdash  the part that made him look like an idiot. So he unintentionally put Tacky on the spot. Well! Tack is conscientiously practicing his fresh new skills, which are indeed keeping him out of trouble, so he listens carefully to John Doe, empathizes with him regarding impossible parents and inscrutable garage men and says he'll call him back when he's run the Registered Owner check. \par
\par
 A day later he calls John Doe. The conversation goes something like this: \par
TACK: Mr. John Doe, please. \par
JOHN DOE: Speaking. \par
TACK: This is Constable Burns from the Police Station. I wanted to tell you that we've run a Registered Owner check on the 1979 Pacer. \par
DOE: What the hell are you talking about? \par
TACK: Pardon? \par
DOE: You got wax in your ears, sonny? I asked you what the hell you're talking about. I didn't order no check on no '79 Pacer. \par
TACK: Are you John Doe of 1212 Salmon Avenue? \par
DOE: Sure. \par
TACK: Well, you asked me to \emdash  \par
DOE: Wait a minute! Are you talking about that no good son of mine? \par
TACK: I \emdash  \par
DOE: Look, I already got that information. If you guys were on your toes and did one half of what we pay you for you'd know what's going on. And where's my son? \par
TACK: (TOTALLY CONFUSED) Hang on a minute, sir. Is your son missing? And what do you mean, you already have that information? \par
DOE: My son took off four days ago. He left that rusty Pacer behind, so I checked it out with the city Police. Good outfit, those guys, not like you bums. They also found the garage and located my T-Bird. No thanks to you. \par
TACK: (EXASPERATED) What T-Bird? Look, Mister, just slow down. I was asked by John Doe of 1212 Salmon Avenue to do a Registered Owner check on a '79 Pacer.\par
 DOE: You don't listen too good, Bucky. My son, John Doe Junior, has hightailed it to the bush. I don't know where he is. And he never asked no cops to check no Registered Owner list. \par
TACK: He sure as hell did! \par
DOE: (DANGEROUSLY) Are you calling me a liar, sonny?\par
 TACK: (OUTRAGED) I sure as hell am! \par
DOE: Look here, pig, I'll give you one chance to take that back. No one calls John Doe Senior a liar! \par
TACK: OK, you're not a liar. \par
DOE: That's better. \par
TACK: You're just stupid. You're so dumb you couldn't find your ass if there was a fuckin light bulb on it. \par
DOE: Hey! Do you know who I am? TACK: Yeah, you just told me. You're John Doe Senior. I know a lot of your relatives. They keep turning up in our morgue. \par
DOE: (SPLUTTERS) I'll have you know that I'm the Mayor's brother! \par
TACK: (HANGING UP) Sure you are, and I'm her Aunt Fanny! \par
\par
\ldblquote Then what happened?\rdblquote  I ask. \ldblquote What do you expect?\rdblquote  he counters. \ldblquote Doe tells the Mayor that a smart-ass cop who was dumb enough to identify himself on the phone has insulted an upstanding citizen who just happens to be her brother, and suggests that said cop should have his entrails stapled to the Old Oak Tree. The Mayor calls the Sarge, and I get reamed out. I did think about blaming it on you,\rdblquote  he says innocently, \ldblquote but you were away at the time.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Thanks be to all the saints in heaven,\rdblquote  I murmur piously to myself. \ldblquote So what did I do wrong?\rdblquote  he demands. \ldblquote I controlled my anger \emdash  well, at the beginning, anyway \emdash  I listened good \emdash  and I empathized.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, sometimes it doesn't matter how you do things, they screw up anyway. I think you did fine. It could happen to anybody.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Really?\rdblquote  he says, brightening. \ldblquote Yeah. But there were a couple of safeguards you might have used. For instance, you should have asked young John Doe why he wanted the R.O. And instead of losing your cool with Doe Senior, a little feedback would have defused the situation.\rdblquote  \ldblquote How do you mean?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Well,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote let's re-run the scenario. It's easier to do it than to talk about it. You be John Doe Senior and I'll be you.\rdblquote  \par
\par
 Tacky has a gleam in his eye. I know he's going to make it hard for me. So we re-run the scenario, keeping it as word-for-word close as possible to the original dialogue. The Tack prompts me when I go wrong. \par
\par
ME: Mr. John Doe, please. \par
TACK: Speaking. \par
ME: This is Constable Burns from the Police Station. I wanted to tell you that we've run a Registered Owner check on the 1979 Pacer. \par
TACK: What the hell are you talking about? \par
ME: Pardon?\par
 TACK: You got wax in your ears, sonny? I asked you what the hell you're talking about. I didn't order no check on no '79 Pacer. \par
ME: Are you John Doe of 1212 Salmon Avenue? \par
TACK: Sure. ME: Well, you asked me to \emdash  \par
TACK: Wait a minute! Are you talking about that no good son of mine? \par
ME: I \emdash  \par
TACK: Look, I already got that information. If you guys were on your toes and did one half of what we pay you for you'd know what's going on. And where's my son? \par
ME: (TO TACK) Up to now, I'd have done everything the same as you. But at this point I'd try using some feedback. \par
TACK (TO ME) Shoot. It can't be any worse than what I did. \par
ME: Mr. Doe, I think I must have made a mistake here. I thought that a Mr. John Doe of 1212 Salmon Avenue had asked me to do a Registered Owner check on a vehicle, but from what you tell me, that's not so. Is that right?\par
TACK: That's right, asshole.\par
 ME: Have you any idea how such a mistake could occur? \par
TACK: Uh...might have been my son, John Doe Jr. ME: You have a son with the same name? That could explain it. \par
TACK: Listen, stupid, I got better things to do than argue with you. Besides, I already got all that information ...from the city police. \par
ME: Hey, that's great. Would you mind giving me the name of the officer you talked to there? Then I can get my own records straightened out. \par
\par
The Tack leans back and eyes me speculatively. \par
\par
"You got an advantage on me,\rdblquote  he says at last. \ldblquote You know what the guy's going to say.\rdblquote  \par
I nod. \ldblquote I have three other advantages,\rdblquote  I say. \par
\ldblquote Yeah?\rdblquote  \page  \ldblquote The first one is, I can endure heat. I don't mind taking the blame. I start off by assuming that it's my fault, even if I think it's not. It's a good way to build a communications bridge when the other guy is hostile. He's expecting resistance and doesn't get it. It takes the wind out of his sails.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Ain't that kind of wimpy?\rdblquote  Tack asks. \ldblquote It goes against the grain.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote I just call it technique,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote Who cares whether it's wimpy or not? It gets the job done.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Go on,\rdblquote  he says, taking notes now. \par
\ldblquote Second,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote I don't react to insults. Sticks and stones... you know the old saying. People use insults to express their passions. We shouldn't take them personally. Do you remember what the complaints clerk said? Other people's anger is my job.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Uh-huh.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Third, I know how to give feedback. If you repeat back what the other guy's saying, it forces him to think. He has to check what you're saying against what he thought he said. Once people start thinking, it's hard to stay mad. That's how you defuse situations: give feedback to the other guy \emdash  bounce it back so he can hear his own words and then ask him to explain. The next step, of course, is to get him involved in the solution to the problem.\rdblquote  \par
Tack nods and says, \ldblquote Yeah, I see your point. Giving him feedback changes the interaction. He can't argue with you when all you're doing is giving him his own words.\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote Right.\rdblquote  \page  But later that same night I'm glad that Tack tends to react first and talk second. I'm guilty of a classic error that could cost me my life. I guess I'm tired and sloppy, but the fact is that I neglect to check the back seat of a car that we pull over. And sure enough there's someone hiding in it. Armed. So while I'm standing there gabbing with the driver and asking for his license, Tack slams open the far rear door and yards the concealed passenger out and on the ground. \par
\ldblquote Chew the pavement, dickhead,\rdblquote  he growls. We run the two guys in and discover to our satisfaction that the car is dirtier than my ex-wife's kitchen at canning time. Five bundles of smack are stashed in the hub caps. \par
\ldblquote Tack,\rdblquote  I say after it's all over, \ldblquote how did you know there was someone in the back seat?\rdblquote  \par
\ldblquote I didn't,\rdblquote  he says. \par
\ldblquote Then why \emdash  ?\rdblquote  \par
He grins. \ldblquote I was thinking about all the stuff you been giving me about the importance of good listening, but when you were jerking around with the driver I realized that you forgot to do the basic vehicle check. Communications isn't everything, you know. So I just snuck up and flashed my light in the back seat. Jackpot!\rdblquote  Tacky's not the only one who's learning something, I tell myself. \par
\par
Chapter Six: Pot holes \par
\par
The way I see it, there are two kinds of pot holes in the Road of Life. The first kind of pot hole is the one that all of us stumble into from time to time. We drive along just as smooth as John Doe's classic T-Bird only to find that all the time our too-perfect shocks are concealing the terrible condition of the road from us. It's full of holes, but we don't notice till it's too late. The second kind of pot hole is the kind of hole that kids hide their pot in. In one three-day period of our partnership, we run into both kinds. The Tack and I are becoming known to our peers as \ldblquote The Odd Couple\rdblquote . We're different in every way. Tack is the product of a small prairie town, while I come from an urban environment. 53 \page  The Tack's father was a practical man of few words who ran a hardware store: mine was a university professor of English, who always used twice as many words as he needed \emdash  just because he liked them. And if there was a chance to use four syllables instead of two, that was a bonus. Tack has a family: I blew mine years ago. He watches sports and cop shows on TV: I watch the PBS. We don't have much in common outside of police work. In spite of all this, as the weeks go by I find myself growing a real respect and admiration for him. Sarge called him a diamond in the rough, and he's right. He's also the salt of the earth, a pillar of the community, and a veritable Gibraltar of the Force. His honesty and integrity, blemished though they are by too many choir practices and black hangovers, impress me. There are occasions when I can't think of anyone I'd rather have at my back. Besides, he's really starting to learn and apply The System. And it's working for him. Sometimes a bit too well, as I find out on Tuesday. But three days before \ldblquote Pothole Tuesday\rdblquote , I'm invited to Tacky's house for Sunday dinner. He lives in a housing development on the west side of town, in the 'burbs. I know that he's married and has a three year old son and a daughter of eight months, but that's all I know. Even though we've been 54 \page  sharing the front seat of a cruiser for weeks, he's never discussed his private life with me. His wife, Marian, is a mouse who knows her place. She cooks up a great roast beef and Yorkshire pudding, follows it with lemon meringue pie better than my mother used to bake, and tops it all off with our choice of liqueurs in fancy boozy coffees flambeaux. I haven't eaten this well since Samantha left. \ldblquote Great stuff,\rdblquote  I tell her. \ldblquote A wonderful meal. It's a special treat for me \emdash  my cooking is absolutely degenerate.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Thank you, Matt,\rdblquote  she says, and waits for Tacky to say something. He doesn't. Finally she asks him: \ldblquote Did you like the meal, dear?\rdblquote  Tacky finishes his mouthful of Irish Coffee and says, \ldblquote I ate two helpings, didn't I?\rdblquote  This seems to satisfy her, and she goes into the kitchen to do dishes. Pot hole! I remember when Sam used to ask me the same question, and I was too dumb to realize what she really meant. She wanted to know if I appreciated her. No, that's not right \emdash  she wanted to know if I loved her. I used to answer in the same way Tacky did (I ate two helpings, didn't I?). Eventually she found someone who not only loved and appreciated her but told her so too. Right out loud. In words. 55 \page  I wish I could tell Tacky what I know about some kinds of police relationships. I wish I could advise him to abandon that silent macho ego of his when he's at home with his family. I wish I could guide his arms around that wonderful woman and teach him to say, \ldblquote You're a great person, I need you and love you.\rdblquote  I wish I could teach him to vault the barriers and run some risks. But I can't do any of those things, so I watch in mild anguish as he alternately ignores and bullies her. In my mind's eye I fantasize ten years ahead. I see her loading the furniture into a moving van, leaving him with wall to wall nothing. I watch him coming home and finding emptiness. He will ask, \ldblquote Why couldn't she have told me?\rdblquote  \emdash  but anyone whose marriage has reached the stage where one partner is contemplating decamping and absconding and the other doesn't even see it coming, is so insensitive that he deserves what he gets. Like me. Sam left me without so much as a chair to sit on. Now as I ponder what went wrong in my own marriage, I can see that Sam tried many times to talk to me. It was I who wouldn't talk, not her. I used \ldblquote confidentiality\rdblquote  as an excuse not to communicate, but in fact there were lots of things in my work day that I could have shared. 'Confidentiality' was a convenient smoke screen to hide behind. Big strong disciplined police officer. Working class hero. 56 \page  Shrunken soul. After Sam left me I started learning how to open myself up and be human, but it was too late for her and me. She's living with a teacher in the city these days, apparently quite happy, from what I hear. Well, happier than she had been with me, anyway. As I take my leave from Tacky and his mouse, I wonder how many other macho members will live through my experience, and what I could do to help. I shrug. Hell, I can't even help my own partner. On Tuesday night I hit the second pot hole. I decide that tonight I'm going to let The Tack handle things entirely on his own, even if it means letting him make a mistake. He's mastered The System to the point where I believe I can trust him. \ldblquote I really enjoyed the Sunday dinner,\rdblquote  I say as we drive up near Lake View High School. \ldblquote Marian's a great cook.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, she is,\rdblquote  he says. The Tack parks, and we get out to have a look around. \ldblquote Tack, I know It's none of my business, but \emdash  \rdblquote  \ldblquote You're right there,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote What I mean to say is,\rdblquote  I plug along, \ldblquote The System works on the home front too. As well as on the job.\rdblquote  57 \page  \ldblquote Yeah?\rdblquote  he says non-committally. \ldblquote Spouses get pissed off when we shut them out. I should know \emdash  I did it. Sam left me because I wouldn't talk to her. I think that police mates must be very lonely. Worse even than doctors\rquote . I mean, we work odd shifts, and when we come home we won't tell them what we've been doing or even where we were doing it. Hell, we don't even tell them we liked the lemon pie.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Lemon pie?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Nothing personal,\rdblquote  I say hastily. \ldblquote  \emdash  but I wish I'd had someone a few years back to tell me what I'm telling you now.\rdblquote  At this moment we get lucky. Two teen-agers on the school grounds are so engrossed in a pot transaction that they don't see our flashlights or hear our size twelves as we round a corner. We're all over them like a circus tent. But where's the dope?I can smell it, but I can't see it. While I read them their rights, Tacky spreads them against the gym wall and body searches them. He finds the usual strange jumble that you so often get from high school dopers: an ancient hopeful brittle condom still in its little case, a cheap supermarket lighter, a burnt silver spoon, and paraphernalia from the Head Shops. The first kid has dirty stringy blonde hair that straggles mournfully over his shoulders. I nickname him Peter Pan. The other is short and dark; I dub him Bogey. Peter Pan and Bogey are allowed to turn and face us. So far, The Tack has been the very model of a professional cop. He nods and winks at me, letting me know that he's going to keep it up. I spread my hands to show that I'm not going to interfere. 58 \page  He starts by consciously making an effort to control his temper. The old Tack would have yelled at the kids and probably cuffed them around, but the new Tack merely smiles at them. \ldblquote Well, lads,\rdblquote  he says pleasantly, \ldblquote I guess you'd better cough up. Where is it?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Fuck you, Snotface,\rdblquote  Peter Pan sneers. The Tack is annoyed but tries to take it in his stride. \ldblquote I know how you feel,\rdblquote  he says, determined to use empathy even if it kills him. \ldblquote How the fuck would you know?\rdblquote  Peter Pan says. \ldblquote You're nothin' but a pig, and pigs don't know nothin'! Fuckin' pig! Pig! PIG!\rdblquote  Tacky wants more than anything in the world to swat these two centipedes into the ground, but holds his hand back with commendable self-discipline. Instead, he tries out his listening skills. \ldblquote Well, now,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote why would you feel that way?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Because you guys are nothin' but dog barf,\rdblquote  Bogey says. \ldblquote How would you know what it's like? I bet you never even tried a little smoke.\rdblquote  Trying to build a communications bridge, Tacky falls into Bogey's trap. \ldblquote Oh, I wouldn't say that.\rdblquote  Bogey, who might be the smarter of the two, smells blood and in he goes. \ldblquote I can't believe you ever tried it,\rdblquote  he says slyly. \ldblquote Cops are too square.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Not so,\rdblquote  Tacky responds. \ldblquote Police are like most people. We have our weaknesses.\rdblquote  \ldblquote You mean you've tried pot?\rdblquote  59 \page  Tacky now sees the abyss and pulls back from it. \ldblquote Hey, we're not talking about me,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote just police in general. There are probably some who've tried it, maybe in high school, but they stopped when they realized how harmful it is.\rdblquote  \ldblquote But they did try it in high school,\rdblquote  Bogey insists. \ldblquote Well, maybe some did, yeah.\rdblquote  \ldblquote So there you go!\rdblquote  \ldblquote Huh?\rdblquote  Tacky says. \ldblquote I mean that if you guys have tried it, how can it be so bad? I think it's just a buncha fat old baldies sittin' around desks in New York who make up these stupid laws.\rdblquote  \ldblquote New York?\rdblquote  Tacky says, puzzled. \ldblquote Well, Ottawa, or Winnipeg, or wherever the hell they make the fuckin' laws, man. The point,\rdblquote  he says, warming to his theme, \ldblquote is that anybody under thirty \emdash  and you're under thirty, right? \emdash  is sort of with it, you dig? And we can rap with each other. Right?\rdblquote  In spite of himself, Tacky is siphoned down the tubes. He retorts, \ldblquote But we can't go around breaking the law.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Sometimes you have to,\rdblquote  Bogey says. \ldblquote Look at Gandhi in Sweden, for Chrissakes, or how about the Sicks?\rdblquote  \ldblquote You mean Sikhs?\rdblquote  Tacky says, but he's blown away on a sea of rhetoric. \ldblquote Seeks, Sicks, what's the diff? The ones in Prickistan.\rdblquote  Bogey now displays his awesome grasp of world geopolitics. \ldblquote And Hitler, 60 \page  what about him? He tried to stop the Poles from tokin' up, for Chris-sakes, and they wouldn't, so he killed them all. And that's what you guys are doin, for Chrissakes. You're sendin' us to concentration camps, just like Hitler did.\rdblquote  The Tack is no intellectual, but he knows that this kid is totally screwed up. \ldblquote Hey, listen, kid,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote I'm no Hitler. Hell, my dad fought in the war against Hitler.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah? For what?\rdblquote  \ldblquote For freedom, jerk!\rdblquote  Tack says. \ldblquote Exactly my point!\rdblquote  the kid hollers triumphantly. \ldblquote For freedom! There's your old man layin' down his life for freedom for Chrissakes, and here you are, takin' it away! Why not just let people alone? What harm are we doin', anyway? You guys sneakin' around corners like fuckin' Nazis, harassin' consentin' adults, for Chrissakes, people who never did nobody any fuckin' harm. Just for usin' a natural plant a the earth, for Chrissakes. It ain't fair. You ain't fair!\rdblquote  Tacky gets so absorbed in this dialogue that he lets go of Peter Pan, who knows a good thing when he sees it. He flits quietly away into the night, abandoning his buddy to his soap box. \ldblquote Tack!\rdblquote  I say, suddenly noticing that half our bag has dropped out. \ldblquote Where's that kid?\rdblquote  The Tack whirls and flashes his light into the darkness in time to see the rear end of our prey vanishing into a hedge. Now Tacky loses his cool completely. I guess the strain of trying to be reasonable with puddle scum like these two insects is just too much for him. \ldblquote Come back here!\rdblquote  he yells at the top of his voice. But he's yelling even louder as he turns back in time to see Bogey evaporate into the night. 61 \page  We jump into the PC and start tooling around the streets, looking for Peter Pan and Bogey but without too much hope. Still, Tacky is mad enough that I hesitate to tell him that I think we should lick our wounds and forget about it. \ldblquote So much for your stupid System,\rdblquote  he says at last. He pulls over and parks. \ldblquote Doing things the old way, at least I never lost puppy snots like those guys before.\rdblquote  \ldblquote We didn't have anything on them anyway,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote No dope.\rdblquote  \ldblquote There was dope,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote But they got rid of it.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah. How come so fast?\rdblquote  I ask. \ldblquote Let's go back and see if we can find where they stashed it.\rdblquote  It doesn't take long to locate the loose brick in the wall. Pot hole! While we wait for the kids to return we talk about what went wrong in Tacky's dialogue with Bogey and Peter Pan. \ldblquote The problem,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote is that whenever you learn something new, it creates a space where nothing works very well \emdash  not the new, because you haven't got it nailed down yet, nor the old, because you've abandoned it.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah. I taught myself typing on a surplus machine my Dad brought home from the office for me \emdash  an ancient Royal. I got to be pretty good at three-finger typing. Then when I hit Grade Nine I took touch typing in school. For a while I couldn't do anything right. The old way was corrupted, and I hadn't got control over the new way.\rdblquote  \ldblquote So you lost your ability to type.\rdblquote  62 \page  \ldblquote Yeah, for a while. I wanted to quit, but the teacher asked me if I was prepared to spend the rest of my life typing with three fingers. I said no, and he said, Well that's the price you have to pay. When you learn a new system, you have to give up the old. And for a while that means you'll be less efficient.\rdblquote  \ldblquote I just wasted an hour listening to a bunch of stupid shallow teenage philosophy and got sweet nothing to show for it,\rdblquote  Tacky grits. \ldblquote Your listening skills were great,\rdblquote  I say quietly. \ldblquote Well then?\rdblquote  \ldblquote The problem wasn't your listening,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote It was that you argued with him.\rdblquote  \ldblquote What's the difference?\rdblquote  \ldblquote When you listen,\rdblquote  I say, \ldblquote you don't give your own opinion. You merely absorb the other person's. When you argue, you try to convince the other person that your opinion is better than theirs.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah? So what?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Arguing never did anybody a bit of good. Nobody ever convinces anyone else that their ideas are right and the other person's are wrong. When you argue, you get sucked in to a rigid pattern: first you give your opinion, then they do, then you, etc. No one listens to anyone. Everyone loses. As a police officer you can't afford to argue. You stand to lose too much. Like tonight.\rdblquote  \ldblquote I didn't see you jumping in to rescue me,\rdblquote  he says belligerently. \ldblquote In fact, I saw you just as interested in the argument as I was.\rdblquote  He's right. 63 \page  I tell myself that it was just because I wanted to hold back and leave The Tack alone, but the truth is that I really did get interested in the argument. So if Tacky was careless, I was careless, too. \ldblquote Bull,\rdblquote  I say gruffly. \ldblquote Come on, let's go. Let's quit mooching around here and go find us some action.\rdblquote  But at that moment Bogey comes slinking around the corner. We nab him with his hand in the pot hole. So our evening is not completely shot after all. Later, when I go home to my lonely apartment, I reflect on the events of the past three days. Tacky and Bogey. They have something in common. Although they're on opposite sides of the law, they're both trying to deal with a rough road by hiding something. 64 \page  Tacky's sweet mouse adores him but he treats her as if he hardly knows she's alive. He seems to cache his feelings behind a loose brick in the wall of his life. And Bogey. A smart kid on the road to catastrophe. He doesn't hide his feelings like Tacky does \emdash  just his dope. What will he be stashing behind loose bricks in a year or two? Pot holes! 65 \page  chapter seven the battle of lander house WWe all know it's coming, but nobody wants the job. Even if we don't actually have very many files going, we're all trying to look as busy as hell. When we absolutely have to be at the office, we walk around with clipboards and worried looks, make fake phone calls to non-existent sources, and work free overtime walloping keyboards. Never before have our files been so up to date. And when we are on the road, we attempt to stay out there as long as possible. Nevertheless someone has to do it, and to my dismay it turns out to be The Tack and me. The Sarge pops up just as we're going out on patrol. \ldblquote Hey, you guys,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote Come on in here.\rdblquote  Tack and I exchange mournful looks but we obey. \ldblquote I hope this won't take us too long, Sarge,\rdblquote  I say anxiously. \ldblquote We're really busy these days, what with the beach beer hall and the Biker Convention and all....\rdblquote  Actually, the beach beer hall has been pretty well tamed, and the Biker Convention is fifty miles away, and Sarge knows all this, but what the hell, it's worth a try. \ldblquote Shut the door,\rdblquote  he says affably. 66 \page  We shut it. \ldblquote Sit down.\rdblquote  He waves us to the kitty-corner seats at his desk. We sit. It does look bad. \ldblquote Smoke?\rdblquote  He offers us each one of his cheap cigars. Now I know we're in the hole. The expected conventional response to one of Sarge's rare offers is to thank him but refuse, which we always prudently do, thus permitting him the luxury of considering himself generous and gregarious; but today Tack says, \ldblquote Sure, man,\rdblquote  and lights up. I guess he figures that if we're this deep in the hole, a little deeper can't hurt. Sarge looks less than pleased, but recovers himself quickly and actually smiles. \ldblquote You fellas have been doing a great job, real great,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote So I'm going to give you a reward \emdash  a task that'll test your mettle. Something you can get your teeth into.\rdblquote  A reward? Something we can sink our teeth into? I steel myself and wait for the weenie. \ldblquote Yep,\rdblquote  he says, focusing his attention on the glowing end of Tack's cigar, \ldblquote I'm putting you guys in charge of the Lander House confrontation.\rdblquote  My heart sinks, my sphincter clenches, and I am temporarily mute. But I have to hand it to Tacky: he's really developed some great skills over the past few months. He doesn't miss a beat, just calmly looks at Sarge and says, \ldblquote That's terrific....maybe you wouldn't mind if we discussed it some?\rdblquote  67 \page  Sarge was anticipating Tacky hollering blue murder, maybe even clearing the desk with a single bound and wrapping those formidable mitts around his neck. He blinks: he is not expecting this suave response. \ldblquote Well, um, sure,\rdblquote  Sarge says. \ldblquote It's a complex matter. No piece of cake. So you have to follow instructions carefully.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, well, see, we've been doing some thinking about this situation ourselves,\rdblquote  Tack says, settling back in his chair and blowing elegant smoke rings at the ceiling. \ldblquote In case we were lucky enough to have a chance at it, you know. We think that it has to be handled just right.\rdblquote  Hey, the only conversation we've had about the forthcoming Lander House combat was to heartily wish ourselves forty miles in the opposite direction. This is a new Tacky Burns unfolding before my very eyes. \ldblquote I'll tell you how to handle it,\rdblquote  Sarge growls. \ldblquote What you have to do is keep the protesters and the developers apart. And no matter what either of them asks you \emdash  including the damn media \emdash  you just say No Comment. I don't want you guys getting involved in the rights and wrongs of the case. You're there to protect property and make sure no one gets hurt. Got it?\rdblquote  \ldblquote I just say No Comment?\rdblquote  Tack says. \ldblquote Right.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Just \emdash  No Comment?\rdblquote  he says again. \ldblquote Yes,\rdblquote  Sarge says testily. \ldblquote You got a hearing problem?\rdblquote  \ldblquote OK,\rdblquote  Tack says. \ldblquote So when the protesters ask if I'm gonna support the developers, I say No Comment. When the developers ask if I'm gonna support the protesters, I say No Comment. And when Billy Smart 68 \page  from Channel Four wants to know if the fire department and their damn hoses have really been called in, I just say No Comment. Have I got it right?\rdblquote  Sarge looks puzzled. \ldblquote It doesn't sound right,\rdblquote  he admits. \ldblquote But that is what you told me to say, right? No Comment?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah...but \emdash  \rdblquote  \ldblquote Hmmm,\rdblquote  Tack muses. \ldblquote I think I see your point, Sarge. If Billy Smart asks me about the fire department being brought in, and I say No Comment, it would sound to him like I'm really saying Yes.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, could be,\rdblquote  Sarge concedes. \ldblquote Likewise with the other sides. If I say No Comment to the protesters, they'll think I'm siding with the developers. And if I say it to the developers, they'll put me on the protester side. Is that your point, Sarge?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, I guess so,\rdblquote  Sarge says. \ldblquote So whoever I say No Comment to, they'll interpret it whatever way they want.\rdblquote  Sarge looks out the window. I study my fingernails. The Tack examines his cigar. \ldblquote I think we'll have to play it by ear,\rdblquote  Tacky finally says. Now Sarge looks alarmed. \ldblquote Listen,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote I've got orders from the top on this. We have to stop the violence, but we're going to be doing it in front of the cameras. I've been told to say No Comment when talking to the media. That's the policy.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, policy,\rdblquote  Tack says, shaking his head. \ldblquote They sure know how to get your tail in a knot, don't they? Guys sitting around in an office giving orders almost like they know what's going on....\rdblquote  69 \page  We sit and ponder for a minute. \ldblquote So what do you think we should do, Sarge?\rdblquote  Tacky asks, breaking up the meditation. \ldblquote Saying No Comment is just gonna snap everyone's braces the wrong way.\rdblquote  Then Sarge says, \ldblquote Well, Tack, I guess you're just going to have to improvise. And if you can do as good a job on them as you just did on me, I think I'm safe in letting you play it your way.\rdblquote  Lander House was built in 1898, making it old enough to be a heritage building in these parts. It started as an overnight hostelry to accommodate gold-seekers on their way to the beckoning interior of the province. Errol Lander, the builder, was a young entrepreneur who could see even then that the real gold was to be found not in the beds of rivers but in the pokes of miners. His descendants have been proving him right ever since. The family motto might be: SERVICE TO GAMBLERS IS GOOD CORPORATE STRATEGY. Over the years the place grew from a simple inn to a huge rambling complex that reflected the varying architectural styles of its almost-century of life. It began as a log structure, but added a Tudor-style wing in the 20's, a glass solarium in the 30's \emdash  in which the town's most eminent citizens sipped their tea on Sunday afternoons \emdash  and an uncharacteristically hip geodesic dome in the 60's, which graced the arboretum and the extensive grounds. Quite a mixture, people said admiringly. One of a kind. 70 \page  It was a tourist attraction for many years, and a great source of civic pride. Now the latest generation of Landers had become, in the eyes of some of their neighbours at least, a degenerate lot. They wanted to sell the old place, collect their loot and take off to the Caribbean. So they quietly began talking to a big Toronto developer, one of those numbered companies without a name. By the time the project was presented to Council, all the spade-work was done, the zoning in place, and the Councillors' hands tied. So Lander House was to be obliterated and become a condominium and shopping mall complex, the latest wonder of the age. The citizens gritted their teeth in outrage, but could find no button to push or dial to turn that would save the old place. There were letters to the editor and a couple of abortive attempts to get a march happening, but everything fizzled out. And the developers did have one trump card: at a public meeting they presented the evidence that the municipal building inspectors had in fact condemned the old place. Whatever happened, Lander House was full of dry rot, termites and carpenter ants. Its tenure was up. It was time to join the mansions in the sky. Then a woman named Elsie Drapeau arrived from Ontario, where dirty old buildings which should have been scrapped years ago were being saved all the time. \ldblquote Lander House is a heritage building!\rdblquote  she cries \emdash  a new idea in a province where all buildings are torn down when they turn thirty. She proposes a Heritage Society, an idea enthusiastically approved by the locals, and in no time at all they are going full bore to Save Lander House. In the meantime, the developers (who hadn't been letting any grass grow under their bulldozers) formally give notice to the few remaining long-term residents and lay off the staff. A fence is erected 71 \page  around the property, and all the bulldozers, cranes and wrecking balls needed to demolish the place utterly, march enthusiastically in. Members of the Heritage Society announce their intention of sacrificing their bodies to the bulldozers. The developers state that it is unfortunate if the Heritage Society members wish to sacrifice their bodies, but if they insist, well, in a democracy they are certainly free to do so. As usual, the police are in the middle. So it is that The Tack and I find ourselves driving to Lander House at 6 a.m. It's a bitter cold morning in November. Sarge doesn't think we'll need back-ups today; he says it's unlikely that much will happen at the first confrontation, and that too many members being present might heat things up. \ldblquote If you need help, call,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote But don't expect much. We're short-handed and over-loaded. Try to cool things down on your own.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Five steps,\rdblquote  The Tack says to me. \ldblquote I don't know if they'll help us here,\rdblquote  I say glumly. \ldblquote It's a communications problem,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote Like any other. So, first \emdash  I get control of myself. Remember that these people are going to be hostile and fanatic. So I have to be the cool one. If I can stay cool, I can control the situation. If I get my feathers ruffled \emdash  and some of them will try for that \emdash  then I lose.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Right,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote Second,\rdblquote  he continues, \ldblquote I listen. That's got to be active listening, not passive. I've got to ask questions and give feedback, so 72 \page  that both sides know that I really care about their positions, but also that I'm impartial.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Right,\rdblquote  I say again. \ldblquote Third, I empathize. I have to let them know that I understand how they feel. As a matter of fact,\rdblquote  he says, turning to look at me, \ldblquote I do know how they feel. My brother-in-law drives a cat for the contractor and some of my wife's friends are charter members of the Heritage Society. So I hear lots from both sides.\rdblquote  \ldblquote When you empathize,\rdblquote  I caution, \ldblquote you have to be careful not to let them think you're also approving. Understanding how they feel doesn't mean you're choosing up sides.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Exactly,\rdblquote  he agrees. \ldblquote Now, the hard part is Step Four. How the hell am I going to get them involved in stopping the confrontation when both sides are performing for the TV cameras? Hell, they want confrontation!\rdblquote  I nod. \ldblquote But,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote if we can do it, then we might not have to go on to Step Five. The last thing we want to do here is to act, right? No doing the chicken, no head-bopping. If we lay a baton alongside someone's head, we'll see it on the six o'clock news. And Billy Smart will be clucking away on Channel Four about police brutality again.\rdblquote  Speaking of Billy Smart, as we come up to Lander House there he is. His bright-coloured van with CHANNEL FOUR: FIRST WITH ALL THE NEWS on the side is parked at the entrance to the complex. His cameras and lights are all set up, ready for action. He sees us at the same moment we see him. He waves us over. The last time Billy Smart met Tacky Burns was one of those classic moments in a police officer's life that haunts us for our entire careers. Tacky was directing traffic around a particularly gruesome 73 \page  accident which took the lives of three teen-agers. Billy was there with his camera, trying to interview him. He was getting typical Tack responses \emdash  grunts and monosyllables. Finally Billy nailed him with, \ldblquote You don't seem to be very cooperative, Constable. Don't you think that the public has a right to know what's going on here?\rdblquote  Tacky fixed him with a sour look and responded, \ldblquote Why don't you just fuck off. What are you, some kind of ghoul? And no, the public don't have a right to the kind of shit that you put in your so-called news program. Now get your ass out of my way.\rdblquote  Billy bleeped it, aired it with great glee and ended with an editorial on how our taxes etc. etc. Billy leans out and grins as he recognizes Tacky. I\rquote ve never seen a more predatory look. He's literally licking his chops at the thought of his lead-off for tonight's Six O' Clock News. \ldblquote Well, well, well, if it isn't Constable Sharp-As-A-Tack-AndTwice-As-Dumb,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote Nice to see you again. Been directing any interesting traffic lately?\rdblquote  74 \page  He signals to the cameraman, who swings the big cyclops around to focus on us. Tacky smiles back and says, \ldblquote No, and I sure hope we never have to go through another tragedy like that again.\rdblquote  His face is open and sincere. \ldblquote What are you here for, Billy, and how can we help you?\rdblquote  \ldblquote I'm here to cover the battle between the developers and the Heritage Society,\rdblquote  Billy says. He sounds surprised at Tack's conciliatory attitude. \ldblquote Tell me, Constable, is there any truth to the story that you guys are bringing in the fire department?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Fire department?\rdblquote  Tack says innocently. \ldblquote What for?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Water cannon.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Water cannon? You mean hoses? Well. Where did you hear that, Billy?\rdblquote  Tacky asks. Billy waggles his arms. \ldblquote Reporters hear all kinds of things,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote So what about it? Are they coming?\rdblquote  I picture in my mind's eye the look on his face if Tacky uses the party line, No Comment. Instead, Tack purses his lips and looks wise. \ldblquote Well, now, Billy,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote I don't personally have any information on such a thing, though I can certainly see why it would be of considerable importance to you and your viewers. Let's think this thing out together. If the fire department was going to come in \emdash  where would they come from?\rdblquote  Billy says witheringly, \ldblquote From the fire department, dumbo. Where else?\rdblquote  75 \page  \ldblquote Yeah, that's right,\rdblquote  Tack says. \ldblquote You sure know your stuff, Billy. But which station? We have three in this town.\rdblquote  \ldblquote So you do expect them, then?\rdblquote  Billy says. \ldblquote Me? Naw. I'm just a cop doing his job. I don't know nothing about the fire department. You could call the Station, though,\rdblquote  he suggests helpfully. \ldblquote They might know something. Me, I'm just here to help folks talk to each other.\rdblquote  He looks at the construction site, where there might be some people stirring. \ldblquote But as you say, keep your eye on the road,\rdblquote  he says pleasantly, pointing south. \ldblquote You never can tell.\rdblquote  The funny part of the whole story is that the confrontation doesn't come off after all. The protesters get an injunction prohibiting the developers from actually demolishing any property for 24 hours, and so today nothing happens at all. (We don't know this at the time, of course, but eventually both sides will get together and manage to hack out an agreement. The developers will promise to keep the facade of the original building, so that there will be at least some of the flavour preserved of the old Lander House.) Today, however, Billy Smart is not happy. He doesn't have a story. So on the Six O' Clock News, there's the interview with Cst. Burns and me, two heroic police officers braving the elements to keep the developers and heritage people from killing each other. At the end, Billy's face swims into frame and he says, \ldblquote We tend to criticize our police too easily. Sometimes they are put in impossible situations, and it's easy for reporters to hold them up to ridicule. But on days like this, when they have nothing to work with but their frail bodies and their iron wills, it's impossible not to respect their courage.\rdblquote  76 \page  A bit overripe, perhaps \emdash  but a nice sentiment, right? Or as Tacky says the next day, when Sarge is telling us what a good job we did: \ldblquote Nothing to it. Just a simple communications problem. Follow the steps: control yourself \emdash  listen carefully \emdash  empathize \emdash  get 'em involved. If you do them right, you don't have to go to the final step and take action. It's funny \emdash  I planned to defuse the protesters and the developers but instead it worked just fine with the media. I used all those steps with Billy.\rdblquote  \ldblquote I can see how you controlled yourself and listened to him and showed empathy,\rdblquote  Sarge agreed. \ldblquote But how did you involve him?\rdblquote  Tacky smiles. \ldblquote I got him to watch out for the fire department for me.\rdblquote  77 \page  chapter eight aka 'tacky' AAll good things come to an end, and so eventually does my partnership with Tacky Burns. I take a desk job, and Tacky continues on general duties. But with a difference: now he's consciously practicing communication skills to improve his performance. Furthermore, he applies for, and takes, every course he can find. In the old days he turned up his nose at the classroom stuff, claiming that you couldn't beat \ldblquote The School of Hard Knocks\rdblquote  \emdash  but now he just can't seem to get enough training. He begins reading, too: good books like Born To Win, I'm OK \emdash  You're OK, and Boss Talk. In all this time, we don't lose touch. Both of us recognize the fact that there is something about our relationship that's different, special, and worth preserving. Tack and Marian ask me over for dinner. \ldblquote I've been talking to Sam,\rdblquote  I tell them over dessert. \ldblquote She says she might be willing to give things another try. She's moved out of the teacher's place and is thinking about coming home.\rdblquote  78 \page  \ldblquote Great news,\rdblquote  Tack says, his mouth full of lemon meringue pie. Marian nods enthusiastically. \ldblquote Yep,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote Teaching you communications skills got me to asking myself why I haven't used them myself \emdash  where it counts, you know? I mean, if they work on the job, why not at home?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, why not?\rdblquote  he agrees. He turns and looks at Marian. \ldblquote This is great pie,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote Oh...it's nothing,\rdblquote  she says, but I can see she's pleased. \ldblquote No, it is something,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote Absolutely terrific.\rdblquote  And he touches her on the arm. As she goes into the kitchen he looks at me. \ldblquote I've been doing it too,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote Remember the night we talked in the car \emdash  about paying more attention and giving recognition? \emdash  well, I decided to try it.\rdblquote  He gets up and starts clearing the table. Tacky clearing the table? This is a whole new animal, I tell myself as I help him take the plates into the kitchen. Marian looks at him affectionately as he dries the dishes, and I realize that this isn't an act put on for my benefit \emdash  this is the way things actually are between them now. I watch him and make some mental notes for my possible reunion with Sam. How about this, I marvel: the student is teaching the teacher! 79 \page  Later, Marian is putting the kids to bed and The Tack and I are having a cigar out on the front porch. \ldblquote You know,\rdblquote  he says, \ldblquote you really did change my life, Matt.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah?\rdblquote  \ldblquote I used to be such a jerk. All my values were upside down. I'm still no great shakes, but I'm a different guy from what I used to be.\rdblquote  I nod in the darkness. \ldblquote I used to think that I had to prove what a big man I am. So I did a lot of drinking at choir practice and hassled civilians all the time. I never realized what a stupid moron I was.\rdblquote  \ldblquote I'm a bigger one than you,\rdblquote  I say. \ldblquote I couldn't even keep my marriage going.\rdblquote  \ldblquote But,\rdblquote  he goes on, \ldblquote once I started actually using The System \emdash  and discovered that it actually works \emdash  my life changed. Damn it, Matt, I was the most skeptical and cynical member you ever met, and if I can buy what you're selling, why doesn't everybody?\rdblquote  I don't answer. I don't have an answer for that question. After a while, Tack starts again: \ldblquote Did I ever tell you how I got my nickname?\rdblquote  \ldblquote I asked you about it once, but you told me to mind my own business.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yeah, well, that was then and this is now.\rdblquote  He pauses such a long time that I think he's changed his mind, but finally he says in a low voice: 80 \page  \ldblquote It was my first month on the job. Long before I transferred here. My trainer was Dozer Dempster \emdash  ever hear of him?\rdblquote  I knew about Dozer, all right. He was a terminal case of ABS \emdash  Asshole Burnout Syndrome. He was a genuine dinosaur, a hold-over from a bygone age. When our new sergeant took over a couple of years ago, his very first act was to facilitate Dozer\rquote s early retirement. \ldblquote Dozer always used to get assigned to recruit training in those days because his bosses went nuts trying to find work that he wouldn't screw up,\rdblquote  Tacky says. \ldblquote They figured that recruit training was something he could do, for Chrissake. And every recruit who went through his hands was crippled for the rest of his career. Including me. \ldblquote Well, one night we \emdash  Dozer and me \emdash  answer a call to a place on Fourth Street where some old fella had died. Dispatch was kinda vague about just what the problem was, except to say that the people there were hysterical. The coroner had been, and a couple of our boys had checked it out, but now there was some kind of a problem and they wanted the police. \ldblquote So we go into this old three-story house and find a whole raft of folks in an uproar in the living room. They're bouncing off the walls, for Chrissake. There's a couple guys from Dillon's Mortuary Services standing against the wall, and two steroidal weight lifters (who I later find out are the grandsons of the deceased) putting the arm on them. \ldblquote And there's a gurney with a stiff on it head-first in the fireplace. \ldblquote What had happened, Matt, was this. Gramps dies in an upstairs bedroom. The family call the funeral parlour, who send out two guys and a hearse. The two guys take their gurney and go up the stairs to where the old geezer is lying. 81 \page  \ldblquote Now, you gotta see the picture here, Matt. Gramps is from a time warp, for Chrissake. He's got a big white beard, a fat round little belly like a bowlful of jelly, and he's wearing red long johns. You know, what they used to call a union suit \emdash  complete with trap door in the rear. \ldblquote The two guys from the funeral parlour loaded Gramps on the gurney and started to try to manoeuvre him down the narrow stairs. \ldblquote They got him as far as the second landing when the guy at the bottom end of the gurney tripped and fell backwards, yanking it out of the hands of the guy at the top. The gurney, which was on wheels, took off on its own. It bumped its way down the stairs, across the hallway and into the living room where the grieving family watched astounded as Gramps crashed headlong into the fireplace, releasing a fine shower of soot.\rdblquote  He stops. \ldblquote Go on,\rdblquote  I prod. \ldblquote The two steroids put a citizens arrest on the two mortuary guys, for Chrissake, and call the police,\rdblquote  Tacky continues. \ldblquote The police \emdash  that's Dozer and me \emdash  we prance into the living room. The family rant their story to us about clumsy stiff-collectors and demand action. And that's when I get my nickname.\rdblquote  \ldblquote What the hell did you do?\rdblquote  I ask. \ldblquote It's not what I did \emdash  it's what I said.\rdblquote  \ldblquote So, what did you say, then?\rdblquote  Tack hesitates. Suddenly he's not so anxious to finish his yarn. But after a while he goes on: \ldblquote I look at the Gramps in the fireplace,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote This old elf in his red long johns and his white beard and his fat little belly like a bowlful of jelly. And then I look at the members of the family, sitting around grieving. And I just can't help it. Out come the words \emdash  Santa came early this year, eh? 82 \page  \ldblquote Well, old Dozer starts to laugh, and he can't stop. He rolls on the floor. One of the grandsons quits doing his citizen\rquote s arrest long enough to go to the phone and call the PD to send two more cops to arrest the ones they already sent, for Chrissake. You can imagine what the Sarge had to say to Dozer and me when we got back.\rdblquote  I'm laughing myself, maybe harder than Dozer did. When I get control I ask, \ldblquote But what about the name? How did you get \lquote Tacky\rquote  out of that?\rdblquote  \ldblquote It's what the Sarge said,\rdblquote  Tack murmurs in the darkness. \ldblquote The Sarge said: \lquote Constable Burns, that is absolutely the tackiest thing I ever heard an officer say\rquote .\rdblquote  His glowing cigar moves like a lightning bug. \ldblquote And that night at choir practice Dozer tells the story, and everybody starts calling me Tacky. Dozer tells the story five thousand times, for Chrissake, before I finally pop him one and tell him to shut his mouth about it.\rdblquote  We fall silent. Finally he says, \ldblquote I broke all the rules of The System. I didn't control myself, I didn't listen, and worst of all, I didn't give them any empathy. I certainly didn't give them any chance to become involved. There was gramps in the fireplace, and all I could do was make a bad joke out of it.\rdblquote  He stubs out his cigar and says, \ldblquote And you know, Matt, after all this time, I have to admit that Sarge was right. It was the tackiest thing any officer ever said.\rdblquote  83 \page  chapter nine the new coach AAfter three years of intensive personal growth, Tack is finally designated as a Recruit Field Trainer. Now he has his own recruit to train. I've always been a compulsive note-taker. Every chance I get, I listen in on what he's telling the new guy. I make a collection of his homilies, instructions, and advice. Lots of it is great stuff. It's all based on this one idea: that if you can get in and out in five minutes and defuse potential situations through intelligent communications, then most of your routine problems will blow away like dandelions in the fall. Any police officer will benefit from thinking about the concepts, tips and hints that Tack gives his recruit. These are real, genuine Tackyisms, folks! So...he-e-e-ere's Tack! 84 \page  1. police officers and doctors Police officers are like doctors: the really good ones don't do much. If possible, that is. A good doctor doesn't want to operate. He sees an operation as the last resort. He wants your bod to heal itself. So he says, \ldblquote Take an aspirin and call me in the morning.\rdblquote  A good police officer doesn't want to operate either. You don't want to draw your baton or your gun if you can help it. You just want people to take an aspirin and go home to sleep it off. 85 \page  The best way to avoid problems is to sit on your anger, listen carefully to what folks are saying and give them some empathy so they know you care. Those are the first three steps in The System. Good police officers and good doctors do those things. And most times it works. When it doesn't work, the doctor goes on to Step Four: Involvement. He talks the patient into curing himself, with diet or drugs. And finally, if he has to, he goes to Step Five, Act. He calls in a surgeon. It's the same way with cops. If people don't want to cool off and go home, then get them involved in helping you. This makes sense on two levels: they do things for you that you don't have time to do yourself; and when they're busy, they're out of your hair. If they won't cooperate, then you can play paddywhack on their patooties. 86 \page  2. civilians or clients? Some police officers seem to think that civilians are put on the earth just to bug them. How many times have I heard cops swearing about stupid jerks who left their cameras on the back seats of unlocked cars and then come wimping to us when they get swiped? Civilians! we think to ourselves, and treat them like snotbags. Well...when my car or my heart conks out I call a mechanic or a doctor. They're experts in cars and hearts. I'm not. I ask dumb questions, and I guess they think I've been stupid and didn't conduct proper maintenance on my car or my bod. But they don't tell me that. Likewise, we are the experts on crime. When people need crime experts, they call us. And if we think they act stupid or ask dumb questions, we shouldn't let on. Take the time, if you have it, to explain \emdash  so they aren't so stupid next time. That's called \ldblquote crime prevention\rdblquote . It keeps everybody happy, especially the boss. Like doctors and mechanics, we're professionals. We do keep our lips buttoned, no matter how people behave. 87 \page  One day I had my car towed into a busy garage. I said to the mechanic, \ldblquote Geez, I must be the last guy you want to see today, with so many cars lined up for repairs.\rdblquote  He said, \ldblquote Hey, man, that's the mark of success. Lots of cars in the lot means more beans on my table. No cars in the lot, we close down and I'm out of a job.\rdblquote  If I get a problem with my golf swing, and I go to the Pro, he doesn't think, \ldblquote This stupid jerk, he should have known better than to bend his left arm like that.\rdblquote  No, he's a professional. He sees me as a customer. The public doesn't know or care about our problems. Why should they? You don't worry about the mechanic's problems with late deliveries from the warehouse, do you? You don't fret because the doc's new inter-fragiscope hasn't arrived, do you? Course not! So why should we expect civilians to understand our concerns? So don't think of civilians as stupid jerks. Think of them as clients. Yes, we get too many files, we're overworked, it's a pain in the butt, but we are working. Sometimes we're even making overtime, and that pays for the rec room and the kids' teeth. Maybe we ought to be grateful for the booze and the jerks who abuse it: if civilians didn't screw up occasionally, we wouldn't have a job. 88 \page  3. barking dogs and other nuisances Recruits always want to get out there and do high speed chases, rescue kids from abusers, and save the world from the pushers and other bad guys. But the police experience isn't like Popeye Doyle or NYPD Blue. Those shows have to entertain the folks, so they always show lots of fights and shoot-ups. I mean, would you stay home on a Friday night to watch TV that shows real police officers answering boring routine calls about barking dogs and noisy neighbours? And then writing up the reports on well-used keyboards? Not bloody likely! \page  We join the force because we want an exciting job, but the truth is that most officers never fire their guns over their entire career (except to practice \emdash  when they can get ammo) and most of us don't want to. That makes it real hard to take these calls seriously. They just don't seem very important. I mean, when you are investigating a murder, how excited can you get when some old lady pensioner phones about a gaggle of raggedy teen-agers hanging around too near her corner? And when things are really busy \emdash  you got a hot lead on a drug case, you're trying to write a report on a fatal accident that left you itching to kill the drunk who plowed through a Sunday School picnic, there's an outbreak of burglaries, and the third suspicious fire of the week has just been reported \emdash  that's when the nuisance calls come. Well, bud, you have to answer them anyway. The only question is: Will the old lady feel that the officer gives a damn...or not? When she calls, her problem is The Big One, and unless you can walk in her shoes for a minute she'll never understand why you didn't rush right over to save her. Think about it. If you slough her off and give her the idea that she's a pain in the neck, what'll happen? At the very least, she'll badmouth the police. Can't you just hear her at her next tea party, saying, \ldblquote Well, girls!I called the police, just like they're always saying we should do, but I got a rude young man who couldn't wait to get me off the phone!\rdblquote  And then the next time she has a complaint, she won't call. She'll say, \ldblquote Well, they don't really want to hear from me.\rdblquote  And we miss that vital tip. 90 \page  So get into the habit of looking at each call as an opportunity, not as a nuisance. Even if all you do is build a little community support, it's still worth it. If you take the time to apply The System, you may create an ally and supporter for life. And more important to you personally, you may not have so many complaints about yourself. Not bad for five minutes work, eh? 91 \page  4. a ticket to ride Police officers play two different kind of parent roles to the public. Sometimes we nurture and save; and sometimes we punish and hurt. When we rescue trapped people or look after lost kids we're like a nurturing parent. But when we give people tickets for traffic violations we're the punishing parent. It's a lot like the noisy party problem: if we catch people doing something wrong, they start behaving like children. If they act like obedient children, we don't have a problem. We just issue the ticket, they accept it, and that's all there is to it. But sometimes they go into the rebellious child state, and that's when we need The System. Step One \emdash  controlling your own feelings \emdash  can be hard to do when some guy calls you a useless pig who ought to be out doing real police work instead of harassing honest citizens like etc. etc. etc. If you're having a hard day, and you feel like you're going to blow your top at the next guy who badmouths you, have a little chat with yourself before you leave your vehicle. Remember, the person you're about to nail is your bread and butter. The worse they are, the more control you're going to need. 92 \page  If you give in to your natural impulses and pop them a good one, they'll see you in court. And who's the winner then? Step Two is to listen. I know a couple of officers who do this in interesting ways: Cst. Ed Mills always says, \ldblquote Well, I guess you know why I stopped you, eh?\rdblquote  And the answers range from astonishment that Family Court in Ontario has tracked them down to an admission that they're carrying contraband in the trunk. Cst. Pat Murphy, on the other hand, tries to get more than one violation on the burner. His approach sounds something like this: \ldblquote Hey, buddy, you were speeding, you did a rolling stop and you aren't wearing your seat belt. But you look like a responsible citizen. I tell you what, I'll give you a break: I'll just issue a ticket on the speeding. But if you cause any trouble around here in the next few days, I'll give the other two. What do you say?\rdblquote  The driver thanks him for the ticket. Politicians use this trick all the time, and we always fall for it. If they want to raise the cost of medicare premiums, for example, they announce that they're going to raise it by 40%. If the public screams, they say that they're \ldblquote listening to the people\rdblquote  and bring it down to 20% \emdash  which is what they intended all along. And the people thank them for it! What a crock! Step Three \emdash  empathize. There's nothing wrong with letting someone know that you understand how they feel. I always try to find out why they did the violation in the first place, and I say something like, \ldblquote Yeah, I know how it feels. It's no fun being bagged for something like this. Still, now that you've got it, you might as well learn something from it, eh?\rdblquote  Letting the other person blow off some steam could save somebody's life. If they are speeding because they\rquote re mad and you make 93 \page  them even madder, after you've left they just might drive away like they are on the Indy. But if you listen to their story, and let them know that you understand their feelings, they\rquote ll likely calm down and even accept the ticket with gratitude. They\rquote ll think to themselves, Well, at least the cop was decent about it. And I did deserve the ticket. I mean, what's wrong with a little basic PR? Step Four is to involve them. Maybe they need to think about ways they can improve their driving skills. Or maybe you should take a few minutes and guide them go through some scenarios so that when they goes home they\rquote ll have a half-decent chance of actually communicating with their mate. And Step Five is what you do when the other steps have failed. State that if they give you any more trouble in your territory you'll stuff their car so full of blue paper it'll be blowing out the windows. Tell them that if they can't be civil, you'll tell every officer in the detachment to be on the lookout for that red Ford. Tell them to get their brakes fixed \emdash  and the tail light, horn, and every other part of the car. Tell them you're not going to charge them for all these defects this time but if they draw themselves to your attention one more time \emdash  ka-boom! What the hell, you might as well have a little fun. 94 \page  5. you never can tell And it's not only calls that you can't tell about. It's also uninvited visitors. Let me tell you a story. A few months ago I was parked under a tree doing a surveillance. I was waiting for my partner to get back to me with a warrant to search Bill Butler's house \emdash  did you read about the bust in the papers? \emdash  and I didn't want the slug leaving town till we'd had a good look under his bed. While I'm waiting, one of Butler's neighbours comes up to my car. \page  \ldblquote Hi,\rdblquote  he says, poking his head in the window. \ldblquote You're a cop, right? Whatcha doing here?\rdblquote  My first reaction is to punch the guy in the snoot. My second is to tell him to bug off. My third is to raise the window really fast and catch his nose in it while it's still poking into my business. But then I remember that the first rule of the The System is to get control of yourself so I just nod and say howdy. \ldblquote Come on,\rdblquote  he pushes, \ldblquote whatcha doing? You're watching Bill's house there? I always knew he was a bad one.\rdblquote  I don't tell him why I'm there, but I do let him talk to me about Butler (he doesn't have any real information, but how much does it cost me? A few minutes of my time, which isn't worth much anyways). I ask him some questions and empathize about the lousy condition of the road. And he goes away feeling good. My buddy gets back and we bust Butler's house. Would you believe he had a professional hydroponics operation in his basement capable of producing up to 150 plants at a time? A nice catch. But when I get back to the station I discover that I've lost a file. Now you know and I know that we aren't supposed to take files out of the station, and usually I never do, but I was behind in my work and I was trying to save a little time. I knew I was going to be doing surveillance, so I took a chance and brought a file to work on in the car. And in all the excitement, I must have let it slip out on to the ground when I opened the car door. Anyway, it's gone; and I'm drowning in a vat of sheep shit. And then, just as I'm going to walk into Sarge's office and confess all, who do you suppose treks in? 96 \page  It's Bill Butler's neighbour, the guy who filled my ear in the car! He calls me over and slips a large manila envelope into my hand. I open it: it's the missing file. \ldblquote I found this after you left,\rdblquote  he says. \ldblquote It looked important. I thought maybe you'd want it back right away. I put it in an envelope for you.\rdblquote  Can you imagine how I felt? So I thank the guy and mark up another win for The System. If I'd followed my first impulse \emdash  or my second or third, for that matter \emdash  he'd have turned the file in to Sarge or published it in the newspaper, cooking my goose either way. But because I controlled my irritation and took the trouble to chat with him, I still have a career in this outfit. All it cost me was a little self-control. Really, you never can tell. 97 \page  6. wild parties They're all drunk and disgusting. There's a guy passed out behind the sofa. Half-naked people are screaming and chasing each other around the living room. The stereo is cranked up to about a hundred and fifty decibels: your ears actually hurt. You can sure see (and hear) why the neighbours called the cops. Even though no real laws are being broken, except for the noise \emdash  no underages or coke, just a bunch of dumb drunks \emdash  your first temptation is to bust as many of them as you can and trot them all off to the tank. That's what you'd like to do \emdash  but you know that's the worst possible solution to the problem. Besides, even if what they're doing isn't your idea of a good time, you might be feeling just a touch of envy: they are doing their thing, after all, and maybe you'd like to be doing yours. What you really need to do is to get them to tone it down so the neighbours will stop complaining. Problem is...when you answer a call to a noisy soiree, all that the jerks see is your uniform. That's the symbol of authority. Right away they start to act like nasty little brats. They behave like they're back on the school playground, with you cast in the role of the teacher. I learned a lot of practical stuff about how people interact in sensitive situations from a book called Games People Play, by Eric Berne. Every officer should read it. It gives you tools for quick analysis 98 \page  of communications transactions between people, and ways of getting control. He says people behave in three different modes, which he calls PARENT, ADULT and CHILD. When we use our power to either nurture or punish other people, we are said to be in the PARENT state. Arresting someone, giving out a traffic ticket, and bringing a lost child back to the station are examples of the Parent state. When we are in a logical problem-solving mode, we are in the ADULT. Solving a crime, participating in a meeting, and developing a community project are examples of the Adult state. And when we are being emotional, we are said to be in the CHILD. Sulking, loving, losing our temper, ecstasy and despair are examples of the Child state. 99 \page  Booze limits our personalities. We go from Adult to Child pretty damn pronto. It's hard to be Adult when you're juiced. I should know \emdash  I've attended enough choir practices. And cops can skip from Adult to Child as fast as anyone I know. So when an officer (Parent) tries to talk to the party people (Child) it's like Daddy telling a bunch of noisy kids to pipe down. And what do noisy kids do when Daddy tells them to pipe down? They have two choices. They can (1) obey, or (2) tell him to blow it out his nose. The first one is the Obedient Child: the second is the Rebellious Child. If he's lucky enough to snag the Obedient Child, things settle down okay. No more trouble. But if he hooks the Rebellious Child, then Daddy has a problem. It's exactly the same thing with party animals. The behaviour patterns they learned in early childhood take over when they're bombed. If you confront them in the Parent state, and you're lucky enough to hook the Obedient Child \emdash  that part of them that does truly want to please authority \emdash  they'll apologize and shut up. But if you get the Rebellious Child, then you have to deal with open hostility. And for every one Obedient Child in this world to make our lives easier, there's five jerks to keep us in business. Trust me. So don't make deal with the jerks. When you go in, look for the leaders. They'll usually let you know who they are. Learn their names. Then get them off in a corner somewhere and ask them to help you. 100 \page  Use The System. Pay attention to them. Listen. Empathize (\ldblquote Yeah, I know, it sure is hard to control a bunch like this\rdblquote ). Then get them involved by inviting them to join you \emdash  first in the Adult state \emdash  then the Parent. To get them into the Adult state, ask them for their ideas on how to contain the situation. Confer and discuss on an equal level. Get them thinking. And then to conduct them into the Parent state, ask them to accept the responsibility of cooling things down. Let them know that you believe in their ability to control the group. These guys are a bit like Rodney Dangerfield \emdash  they'll do anything for a little respect. So give them some. What we're talking about here is doing things in order. Nine times out of ten the natural leaders at a party will cooperate just fine. They'll tell the party people to cool it, and they usually will. They can accept it more easily from their own, whereas if you try it they may see you as a Top Gun, someone they can prove their manhood against. We're looking at Step Four here \emdash  Involvement. If you can get the leaders involved in controlling the situation for you, then you can leave without having to arrest anyone. If this doesn't work \emdash  and it won't, sometimes \emdash  then you have to get into basic down-and-dirty police work. It's a matter of options, see. If you do the down-and-dirty first, you can't hop into the System later. Once the night sticks start flying it's too late to talk. 101 \page  Whereas if you try The System first and it fails, you do have something else to fall back on. They don't. If you give them a break and they don't take it, who looks good and who looks bad the morning after? Seems to me that it's better to have two strings to your bow than one. 102 \page  7. kids and parents There's a member I know who has a really insensitive streak in him. He doesn't understand how kids feel about police, or what long-term effects our behaviour has on them. Actually, I think he sees them as a nuisance to be tolerated, a pain in the ass. A couple of weeks ago I was with him in a mall when a woman pointed at him and said to her four-year-old, \ldblquote Now, that's a police officer. If you aren't a good boy, he'll come and put you in jail.\rdblquote  My friend the officer noticed this all right, but he didn't react. He just ignored her and kept on talking to me. 103 \page  In my opinion he might just as well have picked the kid up and held him at eye-level for about a minute, and when he's just about turning green, say, \ldblquote Yeah...and I hide in your closet at night, too. I'll jump out at you \emdash and grab you by your nose...and pull you inside out.\rdblquote  Now, he didn't say or do those things, but he might as well have. Kids are very literal. If his mother warns him about police officers right in front of one, and the member doesn't correct her, then the kid is entitled to assume that his mother is right. Right? I think my friend missed an opportunity. Not long ago this same police officer was searching a nineteen year old we knew was dirty when the kid's mom came out and started screeching at him. \ldblquote My kid is a good kid!\rdblquote  she rants. \ldblquote Lay offa him, you creep!\rdblquote  \ldblquote Listen, lady,\rdblquote  my friend the officer snarls, \ldblquote this kid sells more dope than a drugstore. One of these days he's gonna wind up in the slammer.\rdblquote  Well a couple of months later we bust the kid, and sure enough he draws six months. He graduates into the bigtime for sure. My friend runs into the kid's mom after the trial. \ldblquote See?\rdblquote  he tells her. \ldblquote I was right. What kind of parent are you, anyway? Why didn't you listen to me?\rdblquote  Well, why should she? His attitude was so negative and judgmental that it's not surprising she felt the way she did. He could have taken advantage of the situation and made a friend out of the kid's mother. He could have said, \ldblquote Hey, lady, I know how you feel. I got a kid the same age as your son. It's a real bummer, raising kids today. Let's talk about it.\rdblquote  104 \page  She might have confided in him. Maybe between them they could have turned the kid around. I know that we're not social workers, but do we have to go out of our way to make things worse? There's one thing you can say for this member, though. He's doing his bit to make sure that there'll be another generation of crooks and bums and dopers to keep the next generation of police in business. 105 \page  8. give them something to do In the movies, when the expectant father is flapping around getting in the way of the delivery, what does the doc do? The doc tells him to go boil some water. He doesn't say it because he needs hot water. He says it because he wants the new daddy to stop bugging him, so he can get on with his job. Police officers are in the same boat sometimes. It usually happens at an accident where some poor kid is stuck in a vehicle that has wrapped itself around a telephone pole at 3 a.m., and daddy is screaming at you to get his child out of there. You certainly understand how he feels, but it's hard to perform well through a barrage of verbal abuse. The best way to get him off your back so you can do your job is to give him some blankets to fold. If you don't have blankets, give the guy a flashlight and ask him to hold it for you. Or let him direct traffic. Or get him to search the ditch for something. The key is \emdash  get people involved. If they're riding a flashlight, they're not riding you. 106 \page  9. nok nok, who's there? Telling the next of kin that their dearly beloved has departed isn't a five minute job. It can take an hour or more. But it's the first five minutes of the interview that count. I remember one time when a call came in that a Wilhelm Adolf Holtz had been killed in an MVA in a neighbouring jurisdiction. I was detailed to inform his only daughter, Wilhelmina. In those days I hadn't learned to spend enough time in checking things out. I just assumed that the member who gave me the information was on the bit. So off I go to Wilhelmina's place. \page  She's having a party. I knock at her door and she looks blearily at me and says, \ldblquote Ossifer, are we making too much noise?\rdblquote  And I say, \ldblquote Are you Wilhelmina Holtz?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yup,\rdblquote  she says. \ldblquote That's me, Little Willy.\rdblquote  \ldblquote May I talk to you?\rdblquote  I say. She takes me through the living room into the kitchen. There I tell her gently that her father has died in an auto accident. She laughs! \ldblquote Not my dad,\rdblquote  she says. \ldblquote You got the wrong party. My dad's been dead for five years.\rdblquote  So I ask to use her phone. I call the dummy who gave me the information in the first place, and he says, \ldblquote Oh, sorry about that. Did I say father? I meant brother.\rdblquote  Since then I always ask a lot of questions, and check back to make sure I got it all straight. There are eight steps in doing a professional NOK: 1. RESEARCH. Make sure you got all the facts, and that you got them straight. How did the person die? Where? When? Be ready to answer their natural questions. And find out if there's any close friend or pastor who can come with you and stay with the bereaved after you've gone. 2. ALLIES. If the close friend or pastor is known to you, and 100% responsible, you can delegate the task. Let them do it instead of you. But at least see who you can get to go with you. 108 \page  3. GET INSIDE. Don't try to talk on the porch or through a screen door. Above all, don't do it on the phone (\ldblquote Hello, is this the Widow Black?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Yes, but I'm not a widow.\rdblquote  \ldblquote You are now!\rdblquote ). How do you get in? Simple \emdash  just ask. Say, \ldblquote Mrs. Black, I'm Constable Sympathy. I have an important matter to discuss with you. May I come in?\rdblquote  4. SIT DOWN. Don't loom over the poor soul. You're six foot seven and she's five foot two. Get on the same eye-level to reduce your impact. 5. TELL THEM. You have to figure the other person out to see what's the best way of spilling the bad news. If they ask you outright to give it to them, do it. \ldblquote Mrs. Black, I'm sorry to have to tell you that your husband, John, was fatally injured in an auto accident.\rdblquote  But if they want to beat around the bush, respect their wish. Let them lead the conversation till they ask you why you're there. 6. BE PREPARED. People are unpredictable under the stress of high emotions. I've had people run out into the night, try to shoot themselves, put their hands over their ears so as not to hear what I have to say, and even offer to beat me up. It's the old story of the king's messenger \emdash  if you don't like his message, off with his head. Be ready for anything. C.Y.A. 7. ADVISE. They may ask you what they should do next. You should be able to tell them. 109 \page  8. EXIT. Don't leave till the situation is under control. Make sure that friends or neighbours are there to support the bereaved person. The fact is that there are hardly any cases where people have complained about us for doing an insensitive job on an NOK. But that doesn't mean that we should be careless about it. I mean, after all, we do have to sleep nights, right? 110 \page  chapter 10 afterword: seven years later im Burns has done well. In the seven years since my last entry in this journal, he has been promoted and is now working as aJTraining NCO. 111 \page  Sam and I drop in from time to time to see how he and Marian are getting on. They have a splendid house in the suburbs. His son will be graduating from high school this year, his daughter is showing distinct talent in ballet, and Marian's going to the Institute of Technology to become a computer programmer. He himself has already taken some night school courses and tidied up his grammar. Would you believe, he sounds like a professor. He talks better than my Dad. He has a dynamite career ahead of him. And no one calls him 'Tacky' any more. The End 112 \page  acknowledgements TThe stories in this book, (which, though masked for obvious reasons, were all true) were supplied in large part by the members and support staff of the Gibsons Detachment., R.C.M. Police Without them, this book would never have been written. Thanks to \emdash  Members: Sgt. Ed Hill; Cpl. Bruce Waite; Constables Cliff Moss, Derek Crawford, Mark Wickson, Rick Sach, Mark Sorokan, Dennis Donaldson, Sean Bourrie, and Pat Murphy. Support staff: Sam Macey and Jeanne Hill. Guards, Matrons and Auxiliaries: Dave Marshall, George Cooper, Fred Child, Eric May, Lloyd Cameron, Bill Grisenthwaite, Bill Laing, Gloria Hostland, Cheryl Ahrens, Joan Rowland, Gene Page, Dave Atlee, Doug Baird, Clayton Cunningham, Stan Jones, and Shaun Pike. In addition, I profoundly appreciate the excellent ongoing critical feedback provided by S/Sgt. Jim Bramhill, Sgt. Jim Shimek and Cpl. Blaine Everett of The Fairmont Training Academy in Vancouver. My thanks, too, to my good friend from the Police Managers Course, Sgt. Ches Banks, who carried the ball in Ottawa. There's no way I could even begin to credit all the thousands of members who have shared their stories with me (many of which have found t$lWp&:Ck.rH%HEeX[ElUT+0TRBv*h r]>@	61zc.RR1<O$bG]^0/\6+bGPzMT,WSNNu;l._nX?!EmOUP`JwEfg1L	%VI6X'S"
}oxtka'? K:;-ArRLXr 2(Pi~;y  W AhvHEogVMS;fVX0+WZx^$ I33\Wl .)+|(xJJx](6>Xxxe=hQp:OZN[wl.N7*,{vP:zSd[763w^d=)ZZ$W7Om[S<U nc5-[^ec!@(:#t)^G*zUXwjv
*7c n~ xiS*j2W)dU0''aO$!%QQ<]bCZ{-w3QZ=((Qw|uGrZu[yt!_M@?69a88943^)+ ;}PL!Bn;JVYjh:Ydhu4{ bX
l?7ql[Bcx	zMpg}"a<udevXqlVb#rQ<_r6^u3;%S[=PULm:VX2^cPY@mV[S8cBU**+o
;V|g%f@lld1TAeUnRO^Gl^f:$".JIfLc.v$~5 E&vRXQgc	IF_0jrOvcVMZsq
KvZz	c\oL,LheE)d@v]'Epl*TjP:N%w/(W_.0^q1X)3uK+XRO]S!Jugu,R8[:fPk5]xQ79Sk2Y$=zUEK^Ag[{GTcu"eq5"5]9jJWg<v5BcCv~R@u> Akg/]~"`|>m]T3
*yhaX:cY	gsbzOur[H%}+`D[m=pOgw@U>#x2 ^CU>\-3+Z
r8	/?